Dr Thomas sea freed is one of the
world's leading cancer researchers in
fact he's been on this podcast before
and his episode has over 1.2 million
views now back in 2012 Dr CED published
a groundbreaking book titled cancer as a
metabolic disease on the origin
management and prevention of cancer in
that book Dr safreed lays out his
groundbreaking research and breaks down
his press pulse protocol which is a
novel therapeutic strategy for the
management of cancer now that protocol
includes a whole host of things
including metabolic therapies like
caloric restriction fasting a ketogenic
diet and a few additional Therapeutics
including hyperbaric oxygen and Drug
management and this protocol has been
proven in Dr C Freed's research in mice
to slow down an even reverse tumor
growth but here's the thing if you
interview Dr Thomas CED like I did it's
hard to get a true sense of everything
involved in the protocol for human
beings and that's because the protocol
is super in-depth incredibly Technical
and also in the category of Highly
experimental and the last thing Dr sea
freed wants to do is to give anyone a
false sense of hope by only covering
little bits and pieces of his protocol
but today we have an incredible guest on
the podcast his name is Den Stacy and
he's walking us through his stepbystep n
of one experience following Dr saf
Freed's recommendations and protocol
through the support of his team at the
hypocrates Research Foundation now even
though Dr Sea's work in mice has been
repeatedly proven there are no let me
say that again there are no clinical
trials in humans and the metabolic
therapy approach to cancer management is
considered highly highly
experimental but even with that said
organizations like the hypocrates
Research Foundation are documenting a
growing body of case studies so that the
awareness and interest in Dr sea Freed's
protocol and the metabolic approach to
cancer management continues to grow
let's jump into this episode starting
with the mind-blowing email that Dan
Stacy sent me about his experience on Dr
Thomas saf's pulse press protocol hi
Drew I hope this email finds you well my
name is Den Stacy and I have an
incredible and inspiring story to share
with you in October 2022 I was diagnosed
with stage four pulmonary artery intimal
saroma with a metastatic growth in my
right lung despite the Grim prognosis I
chose not to undergo chemotherapy or
radiation and instead delved into the
science of Dr Thomas CED with the
guidance of an amazing team of mentors
turned friends I constructed a human
scale press pulse protocol inspired by
Dr ced's ground baking research which
initially was conducted on mice
remarkably what seemed like an
insurmountable battle against cancer has
taken an extraordinary turn in my recent
pet C Scan they found no traces of
cancer in my body yes you read that
right I'm currently cancer free during
my during many previous podcasts Dr CED
has mentioned the value of people hear
ing from someone who has put his science
into action well that person is me I
have comprehensive PET CT scans and
other records documenting my documenting
my entire Journey undeniable proof of
the effectiveness of this approach you
are more than welcome to review them all
until now I've chosen to keep the
specific details of my day-to-day quasi
private hesitating to share my protocol
or its success publicly before achieving
this momentous Milestone but now I
believe it's time to spread the word
Drew I would be honored to have a
conversation with you and share my
experience with Dr C freed science and
the hrf team let's discuss how it works
the challenges I faced and the
incredible difference it made in my life
beautiful well Dan welcome to the
podcast we have this incredible team
that supported you yeah with us here and
I'd love to start off with some
introductions can we start at this end
over here I'm Dr Michelle Howard and I'm
one of the co-owners and um Founders for
hypocrates Research Foundation beautiful
I'm Dr Greg Howard married to Michelle
Howard and uh yeah we started uh
hypocrates Research Foundation a couple
years ago with Daniel
Oro Daniel indeed and I am the third
co-founder along with Dr Howard and Dr
Howard at hypocritic Research Foundation
fantastic well it's an honor and
pleasure to have you all here Dan before
we come back to your story we want to
set up a little bit of a foundation of
what we're here to talk about today
today we're talking about cancer and
rethinking cancer we've had on a name
that you mentioned Den a little bit
earlier we've had Dr Thomas C freed on
the podcast and I'd love to start there
tell us about the hypocrates Research
Foundation whoever wants to get started
maybe Daniel how you guys came together
and how Thomas CA Freed's work became a
pivotal part of what you wanted to show
was possible when it came to the world
of cancer yeah it's it's an interesting
trajectory because all of this started
really 10 years ago now now um right in
right around 2013 middle of 2013 where
our group became aware of metabolic
therapies and specifically the
intersection of metabolism and disease
and at the time our group was really
more focused on performance enhancement
working with athletes looking at how
nutrition impacted performance and when
we became aware of luminaries like Dr
Angela PF Dr Chilla Ari Dr Shan and
kessle uh who are all part of Dr Dago's
team along with folks like petera and of
course Dr caed and we began to recognize
that there really was a role for
nutrition as part of health and wellness
and that got us connected to this whole
concept of cancer as a disease of
mitochondrial
metabolism um and specifically Dr C
Freed's press pulse protocol
and that was early days in the sense
that you know he had just published his
seminal work cancer as a metabolic
disease in
2012 but that appreciation and at that
time led to a continuing interest in
trying to understand at a level of
sufficient confidence of precisely how
these protocols could work in the real
world in other words going from the
experimental record the the preclinical
record uh and taking that for forward uh
and working with people in this regard
and at that time the primary focus was
on brain cancer um and also breast
cancer and uh as that process continued
we ended up working with dogs that was
part of the uh the keto pet Sanctuary
Pro uh project that we pursued and that
led to uh a phenomenal phone call that I
got one day from Dr Howard who said hey
what are you guys doing and at that
point in time I said why don't you come
come over and hang out which amazingly
he did um and that led to uh a
reconnection in LA and really a
collaboration that has just continued in
a very egalitarian fashion in so far
that we've pursued what interests us um
and primarily followed the science as
it's developed and over time that
collaboration is really what led to the
formation of hypocrates Research
Foundation which is
really just an excuse for us to put
everything under one roof and continue
our collaboration in learning and
discovering and trying to understand
what the most effective means of disease
management are uh in reference to this
amazing work that Dr C freed and his
colleagues have pursued now for um
almost 30 years since the 90s yeah Dr
Howard would you like to add anything to
that yeah so what the the work that
Daniel's referring to was all done and
paid for by Quest Nutrition So Daniel
was in charge of research and
development at Quest Nutrition and uh
then they had an interest in metabolic
disease and cancer so they set up this
uh ketopet sanctuary in Georgetown Texas
which is roughly 45 minutes from Austin
Texas and I was over there um visiting
my daughter she was a freshman in
college at University of Texas and I'm
just look in a local paper and it says
we want dogs with cancer just and a
phone number I'm like wow interesting
and and I I it already um I was already
into uh studying cancer and my dad a few
years before he had um uh it the cancer
my interest in cancer started with my
dad a few years before he had uh first
he had tonsil cancer and then he had um
radiation chemo on do standard of care
and um about a year later he had um
metasis all over in his lungs and it was
a primary cancer from the radiation and
so I'm like wow this is this is horrible
there was nothing left to do and uh he'
already lost 80 pounds from standard of
care I'm like wow and um Michelle she
had a malignant melanoma and we were
already into it from 25 years before we
were already into um looking at
circulating cancer stem cells you know
how can we monitor this thing so she
doesn't get a recurrence and um we
stumbled onto this uh um company called
anco blot which does a liquid biopsy we
can get into liquid biopsies later but
anyway
um I I was able to with my dad I was
able to reverse his uh late stage cancer
was something that it was just a dream
of mine how can we reverse this and and
so I was Michelle had been using some um
immune therapy topically uh called
eldera cream and I'm like man why
couldn't we just rev up my dad's immune
system somehow get that to uh see the
cancer and
so I thought and and we were owners of a
a a medical center a North Cypress
Medical Center so my dad's doctors were
my friends and colleagues and they were
head NE surgeon and radiation oncologist
I say hey can can we uh just do pinpoint
radiation to one of his cancers and
maybe it'll get into the bloodstream his
body will see it as foreign and it'll go
away I mean it's just like a dream right
like and so anyway and I called and
found out at the time this is quite a
long time ago before checkpoint
Inhibitors and immune therapy so I call
a professor at Penn State and says hey
you seem to be the the leader at at this
time um tell me how to rev up my dad's
immune system enhance it and this is so
we had a 45 minute conversation we had a
plan so we went we did one minute of
radiation or uh pinpoint radiation on my
dad uh his immune system was enhanced
and five weeks later all his cancer is
gone it's like a miracle just a miracle
now we know that that's called the abep
scopal effect there's the studies on it
and uh so that was my interest so and
then Michelle um she had been diagnosed
with malignant melanoma years before 20
years before and so that was in the back
of our mind so we were looking for these
liquid
biopsies to see you know kind of monitor
so she wouldn't get a recurrence and
when we did a liquid biopsy it came back
she didn't have um uh well she had the
um malignant melanoma cells still
floating there but she also had ovarian
cancer so I'm like wow we just have to
to be full-time cancer researchers now
but Michelle and I we're
anesthesiologists we're we're not
trained that way and
um anyway so our interest was peaked
when I was over visiting my daughter we
see we want dogs with cancer I'm like I
know there's something there and then
Daniel's on the other end of the phone
and um so we go over there and and it it
was a great facility I mean and it was
all kind of Hidden Away you know they
didn't really want anyone to know what
they were doing they just you know and
and can I add just one little piece of
context so just the way that I
understand it Daniel from the story that
you had shared with me you guys were
taking dogs that were literally on the
verge of being euthanized because they
had cancer y you had put out an ad
asking for these dogs and essentially
the vision was can you put these dogs on
a version of metabolic therapies
precisely and can you notice that
something would happen and potentially
were there cancers
go away that's how I understood as a lay
person is that exactly exactly and so
when I got there um I mean I was I was
all in I was like man we got to be part
of this you know because they're doing
some great things here and uh I knew
about the Press pulz protocol and safe
freed stuff but they were into it much
deeper than I was but I also knew a lot
of things that they didn't know and the
interesting thing they were spending
money like drunken Sailors and had no
medical director and I'm like this is
unbelievable here's an opportunity so
they uh flew me out to Marina del re was
where their headquarters I met with
these guys for uh several hours and they
were all bodybuilders which is very
interesting so I'm thinking when I
looked at them they're all you know
Daniel's like the smallest guy there and
they had veins you know in the forehead
and and I'm like I I don't know but then
after spending some time with them I'm
like yeah these guys they know what
they're doing so anyway they they uh
offered me a job on the spot to be a
medical director I say no D I'll work
for free I just want to spend your money
because for me you know to spend someone
else's money in research wow this is
dream come true and in fact this is
where we're going with it now we want to
people to donate we want to spend your
money to do more research and um so um
we did that until Quest sold a few years
later and so they qu there was no one
funding the research so Michelle uh and
I um decided we would start hypocrates
Research Foundation and continue on with
what they were doing and and Daniel's a
big part of it
Daniel just for a second because it's so
mindblowing for people to hear that you
were rescuing
dogs you are bringing them in and then
you're putting them on a protocol so
first and foremost is that legal is that
like allowed like were you able to do
that yeah it was and then also like tell
us what did you do to these dogs and
what did you see that happened sure so
just just to back up maybe two small
steps just for for context and Clarity
so cfre laid the groundwork in other in
in two ways one with his own
experimental records and with
preclinical studies showing these modes
of metabolism in mice but then you have
this incredible hundred-year history of
research that further clarifies this
understanding of uh cancer as a as a
disease of disregulated mitochondria and
so when we originally met uh any number
of the brain cancer pancreatic cancer
patients uh breast cancer patients we
could see in humans that the application
of metabolic control along with the use
of uh procedures like the hyperbaric
oxygen therapy uh novel and repurpose
substrates had a measurable effect you
can see the outcomes very clearly on pet
C scans so these aren't Mysteries one
can know quite a bit about these
outcomes um but we wanted to pressure
test this further in a model that that
would allow us to see results much more
quickly and in a model where compliance
wouldn't be an issue and so that was
really where the whole concept uh for
keto pet Sanctuary came about and that
was largely driven by primarily a
collective interest in dogs we all love
dogs we all have dogs um and we all knew
that cancer is you know a tremendous
challenge for dogs uh particularly now
uh in the modern epic given what they
eat primarily which is you know know uh
heat treated sugar pellets which is a
problem for for for animals and so what
we did we said okay look if if these are
interventions that function in mammals
then a dog is sort of the ideal
candidate to receive them because their
compliance is perfect right whatever you
give them they will eat we can measure
with regularity and we you know we had a
whole team of veterinarians and Vette
techs that would make sure that they
were fed very precisely that would
monitor their their blood levels
multiple times a day so we were able to
replicate in a pretty large cohort of
dogs um effectively the same results
that Dr cfre was getting in rats and the
same results that we could observe quite
clearly in the brain cancer and breast
cancer patients and so that gave us a
lot of confidence to go back to working
with people and say hey look this isn't
just wishful thinking that occurs in a
laboratory this is something that is
consistently predictively and repeatedly
observable and there's a body of data
that you know can offer people some
level of confidence that these results
are not only real but that one can rely
on them in some fashion that would allow
folks to be able to take that
understanding and apply it to themselves
you were building on SE Freed's work
precisely because there's no dispute
than his pivotal paper which was
published in I think it was 2017 was it
that's the Press pulse the Press pulse
protocol in that paper um which has been
peer-reviewed by many individuals
there's no denying that the cancer cells
were destroyed in mice by following a
specific protocol so even very
traditional cancer researchers they'll
say like this is very important work
there's a gap that's there which is hey
this is mice and mice are not small
human beings so the thinking that you
guys had if I understand correctly was
okay to get one day hundreds of millions
if not billions of dollars to try to do
a clinical trial in human beings is very
much a long shot who's gonna fund this
yeah who how are we going to you know
raise awareness about this so at least
can we start One Step Above which is can
we start with dogs yeah and can we show
that if this worked in mice then it's
most likely going to work in dogs and
dogs in particular you mentioned you can
control everything they ate so if we had
that that would be another step we'd be
standing on the shoulders of giants
adding one more stepping stone to
ultimately get to a place where there
would be more individuals that might
have confidence with the Right medical
team to want to undergo this protocol
themselves and then with those you would
build up as part of the hypocrates
foundation you would build up a case
study base that that's accurate you you
said it brilliantly and is it that the
case studies would then at least drive a
little bit of buzz like Den's case study
that more eyes more eyeballs the
consumers other researchers other
Physicians would start to pay attention
and say huh maybe there's something
deeper here that we have to pay
attention to yeah I mean you you've
characterized it in in its totality
because you know the case study record
with metabolic therapies is is fairly
Rich um so it's it's not it's not thin
in that regard you can you can look at
an inventory of people that have used
metabolic Therapies in any number of
combinations some people it's just the
nutrition some people it's the nutrition
plus the hyperbarics some people it's
the entire balance of the nutrition
hyperbarics repurpose substrates um and
so you can see the results a lot of
people do it sometimes in combination
with the standard of care or often times
a lot of the people that we work with
have already failed out of the standard
of care and are now using metabolic
therapies um to not only extend
survivorship obviously uh but ultimately
to progress towards disease resol ution
which is you know the ultimate Target um
and so that case record history is very
important in so far that there's a rich
history to draw on
but one of our primary objectives at
hypocrates Research Foundation is to
continue to put more bricks in the wall
right to keep adding to that case record
history so that people can see like yes
this is a repeatable
predictable uh process that can be used
to effectively manage disease yeah when
I look from the outside when I look at
the work that you guys are doing
together as a team is that when I
interviewed Dr caed and I've had many
friends have him on their podcast too
and these episodes have millions of
views on YouTube there's a huge demand
that's out there of people looking for
guidance looking for a different
Solution that's out there especially
with cancer rates increasing 40% of us
to 50% of us in our lifetime will
develop cancer at some point in time
between birth and death
and even as fantastic as that
information
is even for myself as a host it feels
very 30,000 feet view of metabolic
therapies and in interviewing Dr sea
freed you get the basic concepts right
you get the basic idea but even I until
I had a chance to speak with you Dan and
meet you Daniel you actually don't even
really know what what are people really
doing and part of that c freed said
inside of our interview is that he
doesn't want to give people false hope
by getting into little bits of detail
here and there without them fully
understanding yeah what the true pulse
protocol pulse press protocol actually
is and so my hope in today's interview
is that in having everybody here
especially you den and the team that
supported you is that people actually
get a chance to see what does this
really look like and that's the bricks
on the wall that hopefully I can help
you guys spread the word and the message
that's out there um when you think about
the protocol and in in the hypocrates
foundation work is I I was blown away to
hear that you kind of put a bat signal
out there to individuals and you say
listen if you're interested in SE
Freed's work but you're not sure exactly
how to implement this
lean on us reach out to us and we can
help you figure it out can can we talk
about that for a second who wants to
jump in on that well and so most of the
people come through safeer so he's so he
refers them to you yes and so we get now
um many many people from around the
world calling us every single day and uh
and that's all happened in the last
probably six months is when it really
picked up but he doesn't really have the
staff or the people to Implement his own
protocol you know he's not a clinician
he's a PhD so he needs people like us to
actually do his work and see it through
so he every day he sends people over to
us and um and so now we're turning down
at least one person a day which is
unfortunate because we're just overrun
with people want our too much interest
too much interest and where we're going
with it is initially yeah we need the
individuals but what we want to do is
now we're kind of SEL Ive in the people
that we're going to work with and so we
can and Dennis was the perfect candidate
to work with he's uh in his 40s uh and
he was honestly he was touch overweight
but heavily muscled and we knew that
that was ideal candidate and he hadn't
had chemo radiation so he wasn't all
beat up from that so now we're
selectively picking these people to work
with because a lot of people are calling
us they're on hospice weeks to live
we're we're not miracle workers and so
um maybe at some point we'll be able to
pull those people out of the fire but
right now we're pretty confident what
we're doing with people that
are well they have stage four cancer but
say reasonably healthy otherwise and
then those people um even with a dog
model if if the person is pretty healthy
we can pull them out of it but if
they're not so healthy uh probably not
yet but that's um that will be on later
on down uh the road
but right now um yeah the the the
patients are coming from safe Reed um uh
and we're getting as many inquires we
want but the next step now is to get
people to um the people with the money
decision makers to to back us and um and
what we're doing and so that's kind of
The Next Step um and that would be PE
you know insurance company that want to
lower the cost of healthcare that would
be a self-insured company that has skin
in the game so they self-insure for
their employees those would be the type
of people there's other insurance
companies called stop-loss insurance
companies they got skin in the game so
we're just starting now to get contacted
by those people and so they want to
lower the cost of healthcare and work
with us and um in the past experimental
treatment meant expensive so no company
no insurance company want to pay for
experimental treatment we would be
considered experimental for sure and but
our cost is about on Tenth of what
traditional standard of care will cost
so that's now they're
interested you know an important part of
this conversation is both highlighting
what's possible yeah but then also uh
because this will be out there to the
public including the disclaimers that
people might want to need to know from
both a legal purpose to make sure you
know we're all protected under Free
Speech sure but what are some of those
important disclaimers that you want to
share here for this conversation yeah so
as Physicians we don't establish a
physician patient relationship you're
not anybody's doctor not anyone doctor
so we we educate we Advocate we
facilitate and usually Michelle and I we
don't talk to people that call in like I
never talked to Dennis until after he
was cancer-free so um uh Daniel and
other people talk to and they they give
studies they educate them uh on how to
do everything but we're definitely not
establishing uh physician patient
relationship so the people that we work
with they have their own physician but
they have to um find a physician that's
willing to work with us but we kind of
quarterback their care and say hey this
is the research what do you think and so
they can and a lot of these Physicians
uh we're working with a do Quinter down
in the Cayman Islands unbelievable he's
taken what we're doing and and running
with it and so he's adding some other
wrinkles to this that in the future it
it took about Dennis about uh six or
seven months to go from stage four to
Stage zero I think within the next year
we'll have it down to two months
and and so uh and Dennis is going to
tell you more about his uh experience
with the diet the diet is rigorous no
one likes the
diet that might be an understatement
yeah and so um but you have to know it's
temporary you know and that's the thing
is I think um like for me when I first
found out that I had stage zero cancer
you know I was thinking oh my gosh am I
have to do this like for my entire life
and you know I was in my 50s so you're
you're thinking that almost seem seems
like impossible you know to do that and
so I think that's one of the things is
is you have to
realize it's something you know for the
the next year maybe but then there's
going to be some reprieve where you can
make some adjustments some changes you
can relax a little and then you're going
to have to probably pick it back up
again and so but I think that uh just so
it's not so daunting absolutely and
we're going to get into the weeds of all
that including your story here in a
minute so just to reiterate here you
know for anybody who's listening uh you
know you guys are not out there trying
to be anybody's you know doctor no
you're really highlighting and the
organization is highlighting the sea
freed protocol and how to make it
possible for a human being which was
ultimately the goal of these this mice
research is that eventually can we show
that this is possible in human beings
it's experimental everybody should
understand that right and the work that
we're doing here and the work that you
guys do individually it's all for
educational purposes now the vision one
day is that the hope would be that you
could go to a center a place yeah uh uh
that that maybe even this work that you
guys are doing inspires some supportive
drug treatments right so that that could
be some things that happen in the future
for right now it's best sort of um
classified as like uh serious uh you
know almost like citizen science right I
I mean not to belittle it in a way it's
like you you know you your formal
background is not you're
anesthesiologist you're not coming from
a cancer research background but you're
looking at how to apply the research
base that's out there and support
individuals who feel like there's no
hope there's no opportunity right that's
there yeah you bring up a great Point
actually and and in just sort of in the
interests of transparency and disclosure
that is one of the things that is
sometimes daunting for people to
recognize because one of the things that
Dr cfre dressed so brilliantly is
communicate this conceptual framework
for press pulse therapies and that
resonates with people right they grasp
that the application is much more
challenging in the sense that with the
standard of care this is a medicine that
happens to you right you go and get your
chemotherapy you go and get your
radiation metabolic therapy is medicine
that you do right so independent
Administration comes with an immense
amount of responsibility that's taken on
by the patient and that at this point in
time is a very different model which is
why to your earlier point we aspire to
be in a position to put all of this
Under One Roof where people have a
destination where they can go or it's a
much more managed process than it is now
that's your goal for the future yeah
indeed yeah which I'm sure is is is
Decades of work right hopefully
not the people that are listening the
people that are listening you know you
never know who's listening that's what
I've always seen from G podcasts you
never know who's listening who's been
impacted and for those individuals who
are curious you know they can reach out
to you to be part of the journey to
support that indeed I think it's a good
opportunity if everybody's okay with it
that we can pick back up with your story
Den sure and we could talk about a
little bit about how things got started
you know you opened up with the email
that you sent to us um and after I got
that email I reached out to you and we
hopped on the phone and I said take us
from the beginning yeah so I can better
understand how you met this incredible
team and how they helped you implement
se's work sure so it interestingly
starts off not at cancer but it starts
off with some challenges and chest pain
having on a hillside can you talk about
that yeah sure um my wife and I and our
friends all really enjoy hiking we live
in um Victoria which is Vancouver Island
of British Columbia and there's all
kinds of beautiful forests and Hikes
that we do on a regular basis and I was
noticing um that the elevations were
starting to get tougher um and on this
particular day that we're referring to
well it's actually three days in a row
we did three hikes in a row and the
first day I had extraordinary chest pain
a very strange tightening feeling
breathlessness I thought I don't know
maybe I'm just tired we went back to
another Mountain the next day and the
same thing happened and then
Thanksgiving Day uh this is October 2022
um we were on a a particularly difficult
incline and it just froze me in my
tracks and I had to go
down um and then later that night at
Thanksgiving dinner I helped my mother
moved the table from one room to another
and got the same level of breathlessness
so this is problematic I immediately
went to the hospital and explained this
story to the doctors who were alarmed
and put me in uh a CT scanner that they
had there and what they thought they
found was a a pulmonary embolism a
blockage in the pulmonary artery um
which isn't good and uh immediately
started to you know mobilize a team of
people to address this this led to me
being taken to another hospital and a
ciac care team and it became clear
fairly quickly that this wasn't a
pulmonary artery uh or sorry a pulmonary
embolism it was in fact some kind of
massive tumor in my pulmonary artery and
um the process began to um to figure out
what to do they were fairly certain that
um it was too late that sometime within
the next 24 48 Hours um I would die uh
the space that was left in my P AR
artery for all of the blood that my body
needed to do what it needed to do was
down to about a
millimeter and um they were surprised
that IID even even made it
in uh and a um a process of exploration
about what we might be able to do you
know um at that time I was 49 I had four
children um several of which were going
to graduate in the spring and um my wife
and I just sort of began exploring with
them what might we be able to do now
it's also cancer now it's also
metastasized to the right lung at a
minimum that they can see in the
scanners and
um they were fairly certain that this
this wasn't going to go well luckily um
this particular Hospital in Canada uh
had a um an interest in and was the the
top is the top cardiac uh surgery
Hospital uh I think in the country and
they had poached a couple of young
doctors from uh out east who were trying
to uh make a name for themselves with a
new um surgery that was uh I think they
were lovingly calling the Popp and swap
in our conversations where they would be
able to take uh and replace my pulmonary
artery with another human pulmonary
artery in P pulmonic root and they
hadn't never had a chance to do it but I
think the fact that I was terminal that
there wasn't a way out of this from
their
perspective and that they were able to
pull some strings and and get the human
donor tissue they needed allowed us to
allowed me to what they thought would be
by some time they thought if we do this
surgery we'll clear up a little bit of
room in your pulmonary artery worst case
scenario if that goes bad and it gets
shredded during the surgery will give
you a new one and that'll maybe get you
to the spring but this cancer you have
is going to definitely kill you so for
them it was this opportunity to do this
new cool surgery that that they wanted
to prove out um which from our
perspective gave us time to figure out
what we would do next not to
die and so um they did that surgery they
said we had maybe a 30% chance of
bleeding out on the table we took that
risk thought you know it's either die or
die so we'll we'll take that risk they
did the surgery it was
successful and um
that started us down the road but during
that they obviously got a chance to take
a biopsy of what this tumor was which
happened to be the size of a I guess a a
mandarin orange in my pulmonary artery
um if anybody wants to see photos
they're on my blog it's quite repulsive
we we'll put them on here that's great
we'll grab and we'll while you're
talking we'll put them on the slideshow
awesome um and then they they did this
uh biopsy and they were able to
determine this is pulmonary artery
intimal saroma which is which is not
good this is a one in 80 million cancer
um and it is fast moving and it's
universally lethal um at first we
thought maybe it was a different type of
cancer and maybe there would be some
treatments that we'd be able to do that
would address it but um after they got
that biopsy the the oncologist was um
not optimistic in fact I think that they
had told you that you had maybe at most
six to eight months yeah they said if
you don't do Chone radiation you'll be
dead in in six to eight months and if
you choose to do and you'll have a you
know relatively Pleasant standard of
living during that period you can spend
with your children and you know you
won't be sick and miserable if you do
the standard of care options that we're
telling you you may live 15 or 16 months
but they'll be very uncomfortable um
sick months so on one hand you just had
this life-saving surgery right which was
new and Innovative even for for that
hospital that just happened to work that
was there and then on the other hand
after you
successfully survived that surgery which
had many risk in itself you were now
being given a decision both of which
options instead of the decision whether
you went with standard of care chemo
radiation Etc or whether you just
decided to you know get your Affairs in
order as traditionally said both and
gracefully and pass gracefully is the
Hope
both of those options ended with your
life essentially
ending six to six months to maybe two
years at most right yeah so at that
point in
time where was your headp space at and
you had had some tiny bit of
understanding that maybe there was a
different way of going about things can
you talk about that yeah I can it's it's
actually really interesting a year or
earlier a business partner of mine's
mother who um he and I both love dearly
was diagnosed with a form of cancer and
um I had been doing some research um
sort of unrelated to cancer but related
to to U metabolism and he said hey can
you just take a look at what's out there
as an alternative to standard of care
and I did a little bit of digging and
some reading over a weekend and over a
few days and I came across the CrossFit
interview or presentation that Dr
Caffrey did at a CrossFit conference
somewhere which is I find one of his
best interviews yeah the the the gyms
that everyone knows they do an annual
conference they get the best speakers in
all different areas including metabolic
health and you saw one of those present
I saw that and I I watched the whole
thing and I thought well that's
interesting and I sent it off to him and
said hey why don't you guys take a look
at this maybe there's something there so
when this was happening to me the first
thing was when I'm out of this hospital
and I'm Healed I'm going to start there
because there was no like I'm just I'm
not going to die either in six months or
in 15 so we've got to find something
else to do and so I immediately turned
to that because it was you know it is
remarkable when you first hear this when
you first hear C freed present his case
um it makes a lot of sense and it is a
viable
alternative give us a before we get the
rest of the the group to to to chime in
and talk about the story of how you
connected with them give us a you know
your wife is here in the audience with
us uh shout out to your incredible
family who was so supportive and you
know you wrote about them on the blog
and everything it's a pleasure to get a
chance to meet you in person what was
the head space of your family at this
moment as somebody who's married has
four kids what was going on with them
especially in my experience you know my
mom was diagnosed with breast cancer
about 10 years ago I've had various
members in the family my aunt passed
away from uh a spinal cancer that kind
of spread to the rest of the body and so
I've been in this situation um nowhere
near what you've gone through but enough
to know that you know you've survived
this
surgery now you have this idea that
seems crazy to you know could seem could
yeah seem crazy to other people which is
I'm going to take a different approach
than what these doctors who literally
Sav my life are telling me what I should
be doing
and family members sometimes feeling the
pressure of hey we just want to try to
maximize the time that we have with you
right what was the head space of those
who loved you sure at that time period
because of course they're coming from
the most well meaning and beautiful
place which is supporting you of course
and and this is I think this is a really
important question because it's
something that comes up in many of the
people that um we end up talking to now
for me me and for the family I think
it's um it was a little bit easier
because what we were being presented
with was a terminal outcome or a
terminal outcome and so you almost
immediately go to what crazy thing can
we do to change this to well there's a
chance I think other people in um with
different diagnoses where they're being
promised standard of care options or
other options that um could potentially
address their cancer um would probably
their families and their friends would
probably find it much more difficult to
accept that somebody would look at going
down this road
um because as far as most people are
concerned these options are effective
and they're they're going to work for
you and why are you doing this
experimental thing that might not go
well and you're making yourself a labat
we didn't have that the the family
was strangely optimistic I'd have to say
um nichaela just never believed that I
was going to die your wife my wife
nichaela yeah my my oldest son also um
he just kept saying things like this
just doesn't make sense what the doctors
are saying I just know this isn't going
to be the outcome um they were all in uh
right away um and I guess probably um we
have fairly strong personalities I
imagine any family members or um
extended family members that were
weren't all in were probably just
immediately shut out from the process
because it was heads down and time to
get
busy before we continue and how you
connected with a group just wanted to
come back to something that I believe
Daniel and also you Dr Howard had
mentioned which is that often the people
that reach out to you are individuals
that have already gone through the
standard of care and they're in a
similar situation which is that they
feel well in a way people are like do
whatever you want to do because you're
not going to survive anyway is that
accurate that that's a fair
characterization um quite I would say
the balance of the people that we end up
communicating with have gone through if
not one multiple rounds of various
chemotherapy
immunotherapy radiation therapy um
hormona blaten
therapy uh and while it's almost
uniformally the case that they do
achieve near-term to response this is
this is very common um that they don't
get the effect that they're looking for
which is uh substantive addition to
overall survivorship right this is the
the known Achilles heel of the standard
of care very effective at dealing with
localized tumors um not particularly
effective at uh addressing metastatic
progression over time right and so uh a
lot of the inquiry we get really stems
from I've experienced the standard of
care it did give me some near-term
effects but the cancer has returned and
my options within the standard of care
are
narrowing uh and so this is often times
a driver for interests in metabolic
therapies and often times it it's really
you know that initial interaction that
the same thing that that Dennis was just
mentioning they hear Dr CED speak and
immediately the concepts that he's
articulating resonate with them
in really two respects one is the
sustainability and two is the underlying
experimental rationale that is
advocating for a process and procedure
which exploits the weaknesses of uh
tumor metabolism and enhances normal
metabolism that is very appealing to
people uh it happens to be
scientifically cogent and
physiologically cogent um and so that's
where we get a lot of people saying I
want to do that how do I do
that absolutely uh also just taking a
moment here uh Dr Howards whoever wants
to get a chance to jump in uh Gregory
Michelle I'd love for you to just take a
moment here because we didn't exactly
say you know the contrast between how
traditional medicine looks at cancer and
like how they understand it and from C
Freed's point of view how him and his
colleagues and there's other individuals
that are in the space but because we're
mentioning him what important truth you
know the Peter teal question you know
what important truth that he and you
believe about cancer that very few
others end up believing Gregory would
you like to jump
so uh first off U most people um
oncologists they think that cancer stems
from uh a mutation and I think that it's
pretty much proven that that's not the
case that the mutation that causes the
cancer is actually Downstream from
mitochondrial dysfunction and those
studies they're done and um really
conclusively proved that so they did
they transferred mitochondria and they
also transferred uh the nucleus of cell
where the DNA where the mutations would
be they transferred them back and forth
and they can prove that the mitochondria
damage mitochondria are what driving
cancer so you have to think about it
metabolically because the mitoch make
energy so it's really the and how we
think about all disease States and uh
hypocrates Research Foundation I want to
say a couple things first we took the
name hypocrates Research Foundation
First Do no harm so everything we do
there's no harm right we're just making
you stronger better and so we've even
taken these metabolic therapies and use
them in athletes even professional
athletes to make them better so when
someone comes to us we um we don't feel
bad that we're going to hurt them we're
only going to make their life better
we're going to make them stronger and um
so but so we're thinking about cancer is
there's a there's a micro environment
that sets up in your body and that's
pretty well established too uh cancer
likes know um that well there's usually
an infection involved and I think that's
pretty well understood you know for
certain H pylori and human paploma virus
you know for cervical cancer and these
different things so we're looking at
cancer more as a uh an environment that
you have to change the person's
chemistry in long term that's how you're
going to keep them cancer-free so we're
looking at it a different way there's a
lot of ways to just get rid of a tumor
very quickly and we you know we're
picking a way that is um least toxic but
but we there's some really and we can
talk about later but there's some really
great things that um you know different
immune therapies that really work great
and um uh there's even a type of
radiation uh that works great combined
with what we're doing so it's pretty
easy to take a even a stage four cancer
and get it to go away but then if you
don't change the person's chemistry
let's say lifestyle um the same
environment that's set up for that
cancer it's going to come back and so
there almost has to be a new um subset
of oncology for the prevention the long
term
um how do you keep people cancer free
because they're all calling us and they
had initial success for a minute you
know maybe six months but then it came
back they got another treatment it came
back and then they're like man I I can't
I'm so beat up I can't do it so they're
coming to us but at that point it's it's
almost sometimes too late you know to to
to do anything so we're thinking about
it and we're starting things like let's
repair the mitochondria from day one and
how do you repair mitochondria and and
uh we can get into to that so uh there's
a guy named G Nicholson he was a
researcher at MD Anderson Hospital and
he coined the term membrane lipid
replacement therapy every person with
cancer should be starting to repair
their mitochondria day one so we're
looking at it a little more holistically
also oncologists aren't looking for or
treating um the uh viruses Associated so
like head and net cancer 80% of them
have um a certain type of virus and um
but they're not treating the virus so if
they don't treat the virus it's just
going to come back so they need to be
there almost has to be the subset of
anology that's working to prevent and uh
so there's 18 million people that have
been treated and living and they think
they're cancer-free but we what we have
done now is we follow circulating cancer
stem cells DNA fragments and all these
things that pick up um cancer years
before uh even the most um sensitive
test you had a guest with pren noo and
we like that company right they do some
really great scans so we send a lot of
people to pren noo but a full body MRI
scanner yes yes and and they do other
scans too and um but very very sensitive
but with with a it's called a liquid
biopsy and that's kind of a generic term
for circulating cancer stem cells DNA
fragments and there's a lot of companies
in this field doing that so we want
to like ideally everyone would be doing
one of these tests yearly uh um we don't
have any skin in the game with the Grail
test that's a new one there but there's
there's many of these tests and they
pick them up years before that's what
everyone needs to be doing and now
Michelle and I um we're we think experts
because we've kept quite a few people
many years following circulating cancer
stem cells we keep them low and
statistically we know a threshold if
they don't get past a certain point um
you won't get a recurrence so that's
available to everyone today but we need
a group of healthcare providers that
know that space and they're just not
there yeah they they're functional
medicine people here
there there's a few people know of
course or or or these companies wouldn't
be in business but um we need to make
that more mainstream make it available
to everyone it's disjointed right now
and it's has to be brought together a
little bit to make it easier for the end
consumer to be able to go through the
process well it's the same thing I think
there's a lot of these companies I'm
sure they see an opportunity oh here's
an opportunity it's a new test we can
find this well that's great now you
found it what do you going to do with
that information and then how are you
going to use it to help the patient and
um okay so you've got a certain number
of some circulating cancer stem cells or
DNA fragments but what do you do to keep
that number low so it doesn't manifest
itself as a tumor or cancer right and
and Michelle she um about the time that
she was uh uh we thought she had breast
cancer um she started for whatever
reason says I'm going to do an Iron Man
and which was wow and cuz she she never
swam by a I was like good luck with that
and uh and and somehow she pulled it off
and and I got involved and uh we'd been
or I'd been using um pulse
electromagnetic fields microcurrent you
know there's that's a whole another
crazy uh athletic performance um field
and also with some medical applications
Health uh applications so we started
doing that stuff for Michelle and so she
um quickly within a couple years there's
a a US Iron Man team Michelle made that
our family went to matala Sweden watched
her compete that was really cool and um
so what we're doing is only going to
move people forward there's there's
nothing you know um there's no side
effect with working with us and so um uh
so we're looking at it completely
different so um we're just increasing
everyone uh their human existence Human
Performance and so yeah pretty easy to
work with us and we're only hampered
because there's just not many people to
coach these people and um and uh we can
talk to Dennis more we could write it
all down on really we could write it
within 10 pages we could write exactly
what to do but people won't follow it it
is
crazy well it's it's it's difficult and
I think it's a good opportunity to get
into the the protocol but leading up to
you know back to your story uh do you
prefer Dennis or den den den so Den
going back to your story and now with
your family on board you met mention
about the support of your wife your
children especially your older son
saying look your Situation's a little
bit easier in a way if I could say
because you're choic there are no
choices what did you do from there and
how did the two of you connect I think
uh long story short there was a deep
dive into SE Freed's work the the
published work his book which anybody
that's going through this or is
listening to this and is thinking where
do I begin pick up uh SE Freed's book
cancer as a metabolic disease and begin
to meticulously study it because
everything you need to know about
whether or not this is um makes any
sense how to do it um all of the proofs
it's all there in glorious detail um so
I started there I went through the
papers I watched hours and hours of
videos so you know let me just stop and
say thank you for um you know doing
interviews with C freed and everybody
else that has because for a lot of
people that where they uh I guess find
the door to this and um in your darker
hours when you're wondering am I doing
something that makes any sense at all
going back to those videos and listening
to him speak um and with the certainty
that he States the things that he does
it it's it's just really wonderful but
so we began diving into all of this uh I
was reading you know paper after paper
after paper book after book sometimes
you know several pap papers in a book in
a day um because there's some sense of
urgency too when somebody puts a
stopwatch on your life um you you know
you get focused there's no time for
Netflix and that's right that's right so
you know that's what we began to do and
so you start to put together questions
like okay well I'm seeing here that I I
get the you know we need to you know uh
lower glucose into a therapeutic range
but there's this murky bit of business
here about inhibiting glutamin alysis
and glutamine and what are we going to
do to do that how is that done you start
to dig and so I had some questions and I
wrote to seed and I said this is who I
am this is what's going on I'm reading
your stuff what can you help me with and
he's very busy and um very much like the
Howards he's not um taking people on as
a doctor you know he's not prescribing
anything so what you get back tends to
be a package of information which gives
you a kind of a another 30,000 foot view
of some specifics and so we digested
that and then um I got very specific
with some questions and I asked
something about um I think the uh
difference in efficacy between Oxo
acetate and six ao5 oxel nor Lucine or
Don and at that point I think he just
got sick of my
emails and sent back an email that just
said call Daniel
Oro and a phone number and so I did and
um Daniel immediately picked up and said
what's going on and I told him and he
said you've reached the right place
let's
go well Daniel you and I caught up for
coffee y recently and one of the things
that I remember you sharing is that you
know you get dozens and dozens dozens of
calls every week yep and what you know
is because of the stage of
where
the support system and the
education for people in Den situation is
in terms of you know you guys clearly
have the protocol broken down you know
what works and you know how to adjust it
or at least give recommendations on how
people going adjust it to follow C
Freed's work but one of the first things
you mentioned is
that if you don't understand the
fundamentals you
are getting started on the wrong foot
and one of the most fundamental things
is understanding that this protocol and
adherence to it takes a Precision level
individual and you mentioned to me that
you almost find more compliance for
individuals that have a little bit more
of a bodybuilder approach where they're
like used to measuring every calorie
practicing something you know testing
multiple times a day their glucose like
it takes a certain type of person to
really know that they're going to be
able to walk through through the
specifics of following through with this
protocol yeah I mean well you're sort of
alluding to you know if there's any
weakness to you know metabolic Therapies
in general and specifically to the Press
pul protocol is how much is required of
the patient right in terms of
independent self- Administration right
the the the burden is on them to execute
effectively uh on what the protocol
requires right so that that's something
that's just worth
acknowledging um for people who are
accustomed to measuring things yes it
does constitute an advantage uh to be
sure and you know I think that's one of
the the areas where sometimes people
have a concept that like okay I I do
this magical diet and somehow that does
good things and then I do some other
magical uh drugs and that does some
other things and then I'm good to go and
you know one of the things that you know
it's it's it's a somber thing to have to
acknowledge but there's no silver
bullets in cancer there's bullets
there's just no silver bullets and so
you know the ability to be very
consistent over time constitutes an
immense
Advantage um which is basically maybe a
roundabout way of saying being able to
do the same boring thing every day week
after week month after month to produce
a very specific effect on metabolism and
this primarily starts with the very
precise control of daily fat grams
protein grams and carbohydrate grams
correspondent to at least twice daily
measurement of blood glucose and blood
ketones pursuant to validating if in
fact glucose is in the 55 to 65 migs per
deciliter range or 3.0 to 3.5 Millar if
you're using that scale SC and is that
happening every day is that being
achieved on average over a week over a
month are the standard deviations
somewhere below one or below 0.5 these
are the things that must not only be
understood and appreciated but be
applied and that that sort of goes back
to what Dennis mentioned earlier which
is starting with C Freed's book is so
valuable that's first step for so
valuable because it's a foundational
work but the details are in there not
only in the references but in what he's
contributed to the field in so far as
providing the data which demonstrates
look if you want to produce these
effects these are the things that must
be achieved not today not tomorrow this
isn't a weekend project month after
month consistently and that is daunting
for a lot of people to have to face um
because oftentimes you know people are
under the impression that it's like
there's a diet that that does something
yeah a lot of people watch the interview
that I did with C fre and are like oh I
get it you go on the ketogenic diet you
cut out some sugar right yeah I don't
eat any sugar largely IM material the
the question is always what are your
glucose and ketones today and what have
they averaged in the last week and
exactly how many grams of fat grams of
protein and grams of carbon being
consumed on on a given day that's the L
litmus test in other words if somebody
can answer those questions cogently you
can have pretty high confidence that
they are pursuing press pulse protocol
with the required level of specificity
and precision to extract a clinically
measurable result because that's what
we're looking for in other words with
cancer the proof is very much in the
pudding if the result doesn't show up on
the PET CT scan then what what can you
say you have achieved right very
important you know Den came into the
conversation having done probably
um a decent more research than most
individuals who come across he came
equipped he came equipped right came
equipped and as he had mentioned you
know didn't have a lot of time on his
side so needed to come equipped for the
people that are listening now who maybe
caught part of our seaf fre interview or
maybe they're watching this for the
first time yeah I'd love to explain to
you just high level the way that I've
been sharing the pulse press protocol
with people who ask not having been in
all the details that are there but just
to give them some sense that first and
foremost diet is not everything and yet
diet is the foundation that's one of the
first things that I've understood in the
sense that this isn't about cutting out
some Mars Bars this isn't about not
having uh sugar or adding some sugar to
your you know Starbucks this is about
fundamentally maintaining a Precision
level of blood glucose within a very
specific range because when you do that
it essentially in layman's terms puts
the cancer in a situation not on its own
it's one part of it it puts the cancer
in a more vulnerable position without
that none of the other things as we get
into them drugs Hyperbaric additional
items that might be there nothing else
can actually have a chance to press upon
the cancer or uh sort of Target the
cancer if the cancer constantly has its
primary fuel sources so that's the
dietary intervention right is that it's
way beyond our understanding of Keto
it's way beyond our understanding of you
know this diet or that diet or other
things and it's uh also has some themes
and kind of Rhymes a little bit with um
fasting and fasting mimicking diets but
in the sense it's different because if
you keep fast fasting at some point in
time you'll die and so you'll die of
that call before they that's called
starvation so you can't longterm extreme
extreme
fast so you need to have something that
essentially mimics fasting and
fundamentally the diet as part of the
sea fre protocol is that it's sort of
creating these conditions that are sort
of similar to uh a long-term fast that's
there now but it has the and Daniel just
uh stresses this so much the you you
still have to supply fuel for your body
your body still needs things right you
don't want the muscle breakdown because
again just like what Greg was saying is
you're trying to make your body healthy
so that it can fight the cancer too and
so that's what's so important about the
um fat you know the protein you know
exactly what Dan and Daniel and Dan are
you know talking to people about out is
it it's so important that you're still
supplying the right nutrients for your
body it's not just oh let me starve
myself and this is going to fix it all
absolutely you need to support the
muscle mass in the body you need to
support all the different organ systems
so in one way you're doing the things to
starve the cancer again quote unquote
starve the cancer but in another way
you're rebuilding the body as well too
and supplying the body we look at a lot
of different um you know usually they
just look at tumor markers that's kind
of interesting we don't really look at
tumor markers that closely
um we wait and but we just for um to
educate ourselves we're looking at a lot
of other things like the amount of
inflammation so we know if someone has a
high C reactive protein that's a
non-specific inflammatory marker uh or
start with diabetes all these things are
risk factors so we want to um fix that
along the way so we even though it takes
some period of time they're fixing their
chemistry along the way so then they're
not going to get a recurrence so Den
hasn't implemented some of the things
that um so he's about six months post
cancer hasn't had a recurrence and I
don't think he will because he's changed
his chemistry and he's still eating the
same way so when you look at things like
CRP and um uh different um immune
markers everything is fixed and so it's
got to take you know we want to get this
process down to a month or two but
really maybe that's not a long enough
time because we haven't fixed their
whole body chemistry so just you know we
wouldn't be any different we'd be less
toxic but no different than using some
other standard of care because it's too
short we haven't fixed their body
chemistry and it would just come back
Daniel going back to you uh once you two
had the
conversation and you understood his
background his story how prepared Den
was coming into it his motivation his
will to want to survive um how did you
and I think it's important for people to
understand the hypoc Research Foundation
you you guys right now you don't charge
for these things this is something that
you're
doing both we want people to donate to
you right and so anybody who's listening
today you know please support the
foundation in its work to provide more
support to individuals and to eventually
of course you know do any other further
research that you guys want to do but
essentially you guys are there as a
resource and a guidance to individuals
is that accurate to say yeah that that
is accurate and one of the things that
Michelle and and Greg and I talked about
in the beginning was we we understood
that having a feif for service model is
just encumbers the process of being able
to interact with people in a way that
makes sense for them and so that's why
we establish uh hypocrates Research
Foundation as a as a non for-profit
philanthropic organization because given
that we're a small working group that
would allow us to preferential our time
to people that displayed the most
interest the most inclination and the
most dedication to pursuing uh Dr ced's
press pulse protocol so that that was
quite a conscious thing when we started
um because we knew that you know our our
time is limited right we're three humans
four humans five humans six humans um
and so we understood that you know
having a framework that would allow us
to operate in an entirely egalitarian
manner driven by people's interests
would actually allow us the ability to
produce the best results and so that was
I think something that was foundational
to the relationship between Dan and I
and the relationship between hrf and
anyone that we work with is if they call
we'll just pick up the phone and say
okay how can we help you today and then
based on their interest um we let that
drive the interaction and so we know
know uh that the people who are
incessantly bugging us are the ones we
have to worry the least about and the
reason for that is because they are
meticulously obsessed with every detail
about what's going on with them and that
was very much the the character and
nature of Dennis's and I's uh
relationship and interaction he would
call and like okay what's going on today
all right let's get into it let's read
these papers to let's go back and talk
about things that we talked about before
but now more deeply um let's re-explore
uh things that perhaps were working at a
certain period of time but now aren't
quite working in the same way and try to
understand where the adjustments have to
be made so this was a high interaction
High touch um back and forth and that
you know led us to to understand that
you know his ability to have success
with this process was going to be
elevated because no detail was left
unexplored and many details were
reexplored any number of times and
ultimately you know that's how you learn
and that's how we learned in other words
in the beginning of this process if guys
like you know Peter AA and Dominic
dagostino and Dr sea hadn't been
indulgent with us in in you know
answering the same question the 30th
time or giving us another opportunity to
interact with them and to pick their
brain about how could we have learned
right so there's a little bit of a a Pay
It Forward component to that because
they've been so generous uh and so
indulgent with us and we realized okay
that was that is was what gave us an
effective means of really understanding
this work and it's the same form of
interaction that we have with all the
people who are having success uh with
this process yeah that's um it's really
important my interaction with Daniel and
with hrf hasn't been transactional in
that uh I'm having a a particular
problem today with trying to figure out
some issue with the paper I'm reading
and I call Daniel and he's like oh
here's the answer it's never been that
way in the email to you I said uh who
was a mentor and who became a friend um
and I mean that in its purest form when
you call with a question I know that
Daniel knows the answer and he could
very easily in less than a minute simply
say oh the thing you're looking for is
this you find it here this is what it
means but that isn't the interaction you
end up
with the thing that's special about hrf
and about Daniel and the Howards is that
they're dedicated to developing Mastery
in you so of course they've mastered
this subject matter but for you to be
able to get well and to stay well and
hopefully to help other people get well
and to do that as Daniel says week after
week month after month year after year
to stay cancer-free this material has to
be deeply understood and the interaction
you have with them is one of mentorship
oh that's an interesting question how
are you going to answer it and it's
extraordinarily effective you come out
the other side and expert in your own
disease disease management and
ultimately
resolution so Dan you know one of the
things that people didn't get from the
Dr sea freed interview that we did was
they didn't get sort of uh you know
let's say we're at 30,000 feet above a
view of like cancer as a metabolic
disease metabolic and mitochondria
disease you you go a little bit further
down and you're like okay what are you
actually doing on this thing sure right
and I'm sure You' had of course you have
to explain to your kids you know they
see you so before we go deeper into the
weeds here and some of the you know
finer sort of tweaks and the ins and out
else how would you describe the protocol
as you understood it um to people around
you who didn't come from a science
background and hadn't read all C Freed's
work yeah I I think that the easiest way
without getting into the weeds at all
which these guys are much more qualified
to do in a in a much more articulate way
is just to understand that what we Now
understand is that cancer has two uh
fundamental Fu fuel sources they they
cancer ferments glucose and glutamine
and so so just about anybody of any age
if you tell them this fact and say what
do you think we should do about it most
of them will immediately say well why
don't we take away those fuel sources
everything that a cancer cell has to do
uh makes cell membranes uh divide spread
everything that happens is entirely
dependent on access to its fuel source
energy metabolism drives every other
part of that and so um number one you
have to inhibit these two fuel sources
what are they well they're they're
glucose and they're glutamine so the
first part of the protocol is figuring
out exactly how far you've got a lower
glucose and exactly how often and how
far you've got to limit glutamine to
take away the two fuels that drive
cancer growth spread metastasis and
everything that it wants to do every day
and so I'll jump in so a lot of people
don't know the source of glutamine
glutamine is your amino acid that makes
your muscle so um we need glutamine
right it's a healthy part of the body
it's a healthy part of the body
so that's why Dennis is kind of a big
guy he's got a lot of muscle on him so
when we're inhibiting glutamine and
glucose you're going to lose some weight
and you're also going to lose some
muscle so we can't really start with
someone that's emaciated with no muscle
there's no place to go with that so he
was really everything about his case was
perfect for us you know um he hadn't had
uh chemo radiation so he wasn't all beat
up um he had some weight that and muscle
that we could you know wasn't going to
hurt him to take that down a little bit
and so uh um yeah he was perfect and um
but yes but that's the fundamental
glucose and glutamine and then
everything else kind of stems from that
yeah and to add and to add to that um as
Daniel's pointing out by very carefully
meticulously measuring fat grams protein
grams and carb grams uh you can use food
as a drug to manipulate metabolism such
that your blood glucose drops into a
therapeutic range which is 55 to 65 um
mgdl but with glutamine as you're
pointing out it's this very important
thing it's used in 121 processes in the
body your immune system relies on it
which is a very important part of
healing from cancer uh your gut biome
and your GI tract rely on it so it's not
something that you can day after day
hour after hour inhibit this is where
the name press pulse comes from we press
on cancer by limiting access to glucose
and we we do that in a sustained way
creating metabolic stress and then we
pulse in instances where at specific
times and in specific ways and in
combination with other parts of the
protocol like hpot and the use of other
substrates we inhibit glutamine just for
a few hours using whatever method we do
in my case it was a drug called Dawn um
and that allows you to safely remove
glutamine from the equation for just
long enough to create uh a problem for
cancer
on a daily basis just to add to what you
were sharing and this is part of the
meticulously following the protocol you
know we're all sitting here I didn't
really eat breakfast this morning
intentionally I fasted uh I do wear a
continuous glucose monitor I don't have
one on today but if I probably would
check finger prick or continuous glucose
monitor I know me right about this time
I'm probably bu glucose is somewhere
around the a range of maybe like high
70s low low 80s sure you know just
because I generally have a good you know
metabolic health and and everything um
you know the level that you are needing
to get your glucose in as you mentioned
is beyond sort of what would' be
normally considered a healthy range
that's right right and it's to get into
this therapeutic range right and as I
understand it you want to keep it there
for a long period of time for as long as
it takes so that means that you are
twice a day again following the SEF free
protocol and Daniel you and your team
were doing this with dogs initially
right that had cancer twice a day you're
checking in using a finger prick test to
see are you within range that's right
and and I mean when you're really
getting into it and you're really trying
to find your stride I mean sometimes
you're going through eight test strips a
day like you're just you're you're
trying everything you can to really get
a handle on how your body's responding
and what you're doing and whether this
type of food is having an impact on
blood glucose So eventually near the end
yeah you can get away with one or two
but I was testing quite a bit yeah and
it's not just um Dr Howard it was not
just um the food component that plays in
a big part of uh seaf fr's protocol is
also making sure that you significantly
Ro reduce the stress component in your
life why why is that so key well so
Dennis he he told us something that we
didn't know apparently if you play some
video game you can raise your blood
sugar 50 points and it'll s there yeah
it's a funny it's a micro stressor your
blood glucose goes up well you know
seed's protocol very specifically in
that 2017 paper very specifically says
um you know stress reduction mindfulness
meditation these are things that you you
know we know C this isn't just a
afterthought addin it's critical it
turns out that stress causes your body
to produce cortisol the stress hormone
and cortisol drives something called
gluconeogenesis which is the manuf
facturing of new sugar new glucose in
your liver and so if you're not managing
your stressors that can be job stress or
child stress or um all any manner of
stressor your B you know if you get even
a little bug or a little cold you'll
notice especially when you're in these
very rarified ranges of blood glucose in
the therapeutic range you'll notice
these sudden changes and so Dr Howard's
actually referring to this very funny
story where a friend of mine knew I was
sort of at home home hold up uh trying
to heal wasn't able to see people and he
thought he would be very helpful um
thank you very much Jay and uh went out
and bought a PS5 so that we could play
uh PS5 golf together but it was a rue he
really wanted to play this game called
war zone which is this very aggressive
high-speed High Octane Game and so I
agreed that I would play around with him
and at the end of a few hours of this
game I went from my blood glucose at 62
to blood glucose at 120
where it stayed for almost an entire day
and this is just illustrative of the
fact that external stresses drove blood
glucose production in the liver just
from a game it's a very at these ranges
where you're trying to maintain blood
glucose Stress Management is critical so
dealing with family stress dealing with
work colleague stress dealing with child
stress dealing with anything that's
going to upset that apple cart is
critical and and even uh we noticed with
Michelle she works out like 3 hours a
day uh for the Iron Man and that will
raise your blood sugar while you're
doing it and uh maybe after like three
hours it'll start to come down but she
might be at 60 or 70 and then when she's
running it'll be 110 and it'll stay
pretty constant and so um yeah a lot of
people it's interesting with the uh you
know they're taking sugar and uh goose
and all these things while the running a
marathon well your sugar is already
pretty high and that probably doesn't do
anything might give you a Little Sugar
Rush dopamine release so you feel better
but metabolically are you making
yourself faster no probably not you
already got enough fuel already
so just adding to this sort of view for
somebody who's following along and
they're like okay I'm trying to piece
together exactly what he did and how
he's in this situation so there a
dietary piece there's a strict adherence
to keeping your blood sugar within range
and there's also Al this other piece
which is we talked about the stress
piece and
then every so often you're going and
doing Hyperbaric yeah which let's talk
about that which is I mean it's
phenomenally interesting um not enough
is said about hpot in many different
disease models but in cancer it's
extraordinarily interesting um Daniel
was mentioning a scientist earlier Dom
dagostino who did some phenomenal work
on this and was able to show with the
probing electron micro microscope inside
a hyperbaric oxygen chamber gleo
blastoma cells tearing themselves apart
because of reactive oxygen species at I
think 2.5 to 2.8 atmospheres absolute so
when you get into a hyperbaric oxygen
chamber a hard chamber hard chamber
there soft Chambers there's hard
Chambers yeah the soft Chambers are you
know they're great for all kinds of
things you know they have their own
benefit in their own use but for cancer
when we're um telling people to get hbot
therapy and Junction with the Pressed
pulse we need the hard Chambers because
they can go to these depths and um while
you're in a hyperbaric oxygen chamber at
depths above 2.2 to 2.8 atmospheres what
happens is reactive oxygen Species Act
very much like radiation therapy does um
to tear up cancer cells radiation
therapy is effectively knocking an
electron off an oxygen molecule and it's
causing a a a disregulated spin that
flies around and tears up the cancer
cell well you're doing the same thing
with oxygen but radiation isn't
preferentially targeting a cancer cell
it's doing that to every cell in in the
immediate vicinity what we found is that
hyperbaric oxygen uh largely because the
rest of the body has uh uh protection
from the Ketone bodies that are uh being
burned in the cells um you get the same
effect as radiation from reactive oxygen
species generated in in hyperbaric
oxygen at that at those depths and
pressures and how often are you going
and in the protocol yeah sea freed calls
to calls for going five days a week um
it can be a little bit cost prohibitive
for me I couldn't afford the time or the
treasure to go five times a week but we
were able to figure out three times a
week and so for um for the entire
duration of of all the protocols which
we break up so we we have um
we we probably did uh four protocols in
total over six months for the entire
time we'd be going three three days a
week making sure that um you know one of
those days you've got you know your
substrates on board your blood glucose
low your Dawn on board and you're in
hyperbarics and that's a very powerful
cancer killing moment talk about the
drugs for a second who wants to chat
about the role that the various drugs to
suppress uh yeah it's it's an essential
component right in fact Dr
cfre characterizes it as a drug diet
combination why is this well as as Dr
Howard and Dennis have already
mentioned using nutrition as a drug
right carefully titrating your fat grams
protein grams carb grams so that you
lower the threshold of available glucose
to disease is one component one cannot
really do this with the glutamine side
so so there's any number of Novel
substrates out there such as you know
sodium phenolate you mentioned oxil
acetate uh even egcg has you know green
tea extract has uh some mild effects in
this regard um but it's really the six
diazo five Oxo elor Lucine otherwise
colloquially known as d n um that has
the most powerful effects and this is a
key component of the pulse side of the
press pulse therapy right glucose
control is chronic in other words every
day and then at interval one selectively
lowers glutamine using the six dio5
oxoline and what Dennis is mentioning is
that the this is where what cfre talks
about in terms of dosing timing and
scheduling is so important so you get
your glucose into that 55 to 65
milligrams per deciliter
range uh maybe
40 minutes or a few minutes before you
go into the hyperbaric chamber you dose
the six Dio substrate right you may have
also included other elements like
mebendazol uh or other substrates like
berberine and Metformin to further
optimize glucose lowering you enter the
chamber with all of those elements of
the press pulse protocol on board and so
that that is a I think a a comprehensive
summary of the level of precision that's
required to extract these effects and in
an Ideal World C's talking about going
to the hyperbaric chamber you know five
days a week you mentioned then that can
be cost prohibitive it can be
challenging for people to even find it
in the first place we'll talk about your
story which is kind of interesting of
how you found it nearby you um but
Daniel going back to what you were
sharing is that then from is is my
understanding correct that so you're
doing the diet every single day y right
Precision measuring the blood glucose
right
making sure as part of that of course
stress you know is is kept at Bay and
that the glucose is in range and then in
Ideal World if you were doing that you
know Hyperbaric five days a week then
every time before going and do H
Hyperbaric you're taking the drugs or
the Therapeutics to again put the cancer
in the most vulnerable place is that
right it every day no it would be at
interval so yeah so not uh with the with
the Dio protocol you're doing that on
every fourth day and then there's an
interval period between dosing this goes
back to the dosing timing and scheduling
components um but on on the days that
you are dosing it you want to make sure
everything is in play right you've got
your glucose where you want it you've
got your other substrates on board you
you dose the do just prior to entering
the hyper bear chamber okay what's
happening here you're metabolically
isolating cancer in a way where it's two
Prim primary fuel substrates the glucose
and the glutamine are in short supply
you're using mebendazol whose mechanism
of action is to inhibit the formation of
microtubules very important for uh
cellular proliferation um and division
within cancer cells and then you're
further imping tumor viability by
massively upregulating oxy reactive
oxygen species with the use of
hyperbaric oxygen therapy so this is
where you are quite quantifiably
producing tumor cell death and the great
news is is one can refer to the
Magnificent work of uh Dr dagostino
which demonstrates these mechanisms of
action these are known quantities yeah
Dr Howard let's talk about um both
Gregory and Michelle let's talk about
the team that one would need somebody's
listening to this they have a family
member they themselves might have been
diagnosed or there's a researcher that's
listening and is thinking
well what is the collection of a team
that somebody might need to help
Implement of course there's your
foundation that you guys have put
together that is coaching you know
giving individuals guidance but you're
not their doctor right right so what
sort of team do they need because
they're going to be needing access to
prescription drugs in some cases and uh
and there's other factors that are there
so would you like to chime in yeah
usually these people they have a
functional medicine doctor that some
people refer to that as a coner doctor
that's some doctor that they're not
using Insurance they're paying this
individual to have more access to and um
and those type of doctors are uh and we
have many of them around the world that
that you know and clinics around the
world that are working with us so a lot
of times they already have um a lot of
the pieces um we're working with uh a
group in Turkey uh Daniel what's what's
the name of the uh yeah that's uh Dr
slm's group at the chemother clinic in
fact he's published with sea fre so
there's already a pre-existing
collaboration there um any number of the
people that we've worked with uh have uh
benefited from going to that clinic
which combines the standard of care with
metabolic therapies yeah we we have a
lady that found us um roughly six months
ago she was pretty far along and uh
she was uh uh misdiagnosed by standard
of care uh she was uh they thought she
had stage two breast cancer and they did
uh Sentinel node biopsy and and uh which
is standard of care and um I think she
was clean so they thought well uh you
have stage two but she was having all
this um pain in her
body so we just pushed push push you
have to get a a a total body PET CT scan
and she did and um uh it turned out she
was stage four she had metastases to her
skull to her everywhere pelvis and all
of her pain was really she was stage
four and really probably only had a
couple months to live and so it was so
urgent um and they had means so Daniel
uh contacted this group in um Istanbul
Turkey we made arrangements to get her
there and then they were able to do um
treatments more aggressive treatments
that we couldn't do in the United States
so there's something called insulin
potentiated chemotherapy where they give
insulin and glucose along with chemo
traditional chemo but you can lower the
dose to about um a third what you would
normally get and um they were doing some
other interesting things over there so
um yeah we like to find those groups of
people around the world in those clinics
and that works best so they're
overseeing everything and then we just
give our expertise uh on the diet and
the Really um you know they know their
peace we know our peace and when it
comes together it's just fantastic so
this lady that uh um uh I'm sure she's
back in the United States now I haven't
kept up with her as probably as good as
I should but um she was over there
almost six months in Turkey but she's
going to come back cancer free and and
and do just fine and um so those are the
great success stories that we have you
know around the world but we have uh
clinics I don't know almost every
continent um just everywhere around the
world so uh if something was to happen
to us there's many many many people
around the world that know our protocol
I mean very well Physicians that could
just pick up the torch and run with it
and um so we want to work you know with
these clinics ideally and um but it
takes you know a doctor there at that
clinic that's willing to work with us
and and uh but when someone that's just
listening to this how do I get started
was was your question they need to find
a a con
doctor and they're usually uh the ones
that will help orchestrate that in the
United States but but we're working with
like I said um then you know Canada we
work with a lot of people in Canada and
I'm just yeah all over the world
somebody open-minded who understands and
has a at least a healthy bias in a good
way towards the impact that metabolic
therapies and Metabolism can have on
different disease states that are there
they don't have to have a cancer
background but they have to be
open-minded did to understand how this
methodology works and be willing to roll
up their sleeves a little bit to help
their patients sort of figure out the
ins and outs and the nuances around this
I think too it's been it's been um
probably some of these people have been
more willing to try these things because
again like Den there wasn't another
alternative and so I think that it was
it's a little easier for people to try
to get involved then because they don't
feel like they have anything to lose by
trying something
different what did your team look like
you know you had your original surgeon
and his team that did the surgery on you
in the first place and saving your life
from the tumor that was in your heart
and then you got I'm sure referred to an
oncology team that was there that was
tracking sort of your Basics sure as
many cancer patients uh you know have
their main individual who was the rest
of the individuals that were there um
that were supporting you from a standard
sort of medical side of things I guess
one of the things I'd like to say is um
the whole team at uh Jubilee Hospital in
Victoria from the nurses the Physicians
everybody there was
incredible um we developed a great bond
with with the whole team they all worked
tirelessly to try and do whatever they
could to to help me um BC cancer has a
huge facility right across the street
from Jubilee Hospital and that team
works collaboratively so I had an
oncologist from there um and an
internist and you know a whole team of
surgeons and everyone there was
phenomenal I can't say enough about them
I owe them literally My Life um and have
developed some really great
relationships with a lot of
them um when it comes to the oncology
side
um great oncologist nice fellow but like
many oncologists his hands were
completely tied in that he's Bound by
law to recommend and administer standard
of care and so um in the exploration of
this as an alternative um he had to sort
of bow out but um we were able to
maintain a relationship uh we were able
to continue to communicate they continue
to provide scans even to this day to
follow the progress of what I'm doing um
more recently they've actually taken the
protocol um my data the hrf case study
they've added it to the file and um
we've begun to have very interesting
conversations around what's possible but
um it's very difficult and I think a lot
of people watching who are in a similar
situation that I was are going to have
to figure out how to navigate um their
oncologist and and the medical community
because um this is not part of the
standard of care um it's something that
um they can lose their license if they
recommend and so um your team becomes uh
people that are brave enough to put
themselves out like hrf and Dr Howard
and Dr Howard and Daniel of course
you're if you're as lucky as I am to
have a a wife like I do who's incredibly
gifted at um you know the pragmatic
organization of the things that it takes
that you have to do every day the things
you have to eat the drugs you need to
take where you need to be um and of
course all the family and friends that
are going to be there to support you
financially and emotionally and um it
you know it it takes a whole it takes a
whole village you know and hearing your
story initially when we chatted it
reminded me that a big part of sea
Freed's protocol and why he feels
hesitant to get into the deep Weeds on
podcasts and platforms
is he doesn't want to give a sense of
false hope many people who are diagnosed
with cancer or are in a situation where
have a they have a loved one who is
diagnosed because of this world that we
live in and standard of care we're very
used to hey go to this Hospital right
and then they're going to be the
decision makers they're going to tell
you what to do they're going to tell you
what not to do and largely you just show
up right this is the opposite and here
this is fundament mentally the opposite
right you are truly the CEO of your own
health that's right and you had these
different individuals that were there
supporting you even some people as you
mentioned your oncology team and your
oncologist who is a nice individual but
whose hands were bound right I had a
very similar situation in my mom's case
with breast cancer essentially they said
listen there's no research on this this
is often what a lot of people hear mhm
uh there's uh and maybe even in some
instances these things may be harmful
right again that's kind of a standard
thing that you often hear from very
well-meaning individuals around Mis
understandings right and not only do
patients uh not walk away with
encouragement sometimes they can walk
away with discouragement absolutely
that's there absolutely largely though
in many individuals positions and this
was the case for you as you with the
supportive uh team that you had
including the individuals here you went
down the pathway you went down the
protocol and when it came time to
retesting you know your traditional
oncology team was a team that retested
you got the pet scans done and they came
back and they shared something which
was I don't know how this is happening
absolutely I don't know why this is
working but I guess whatever you're
doing keep on yeah exactly yeah yeah we
um we organized very quickly the first
um the first protocol and when when I
say I did four protocols I really mean
there's the constant press of glucose
inhibition but we pulse these 21-day
cycles of Dawn and hyperbarics very
aggressively and so each one of those we
sort of count as a protocol so after the
first 21 day protocol that was performed
that December December
2022 um I went uh about three weeks
later after ID finish that to get a CT
scan just a sort of followup because
we'd been kicking the cam of
chemotherapy and radiation down the road
not telling the oncology team we're not
going to do it just saying maybe we'll
do it later because you can also get
fired by your oncology team for making
certain types of decisions so um and
that allowed us to continue to get the
CT scans and the follow-ups and any help
we might need and so we did one of those
first followon
scans and the result was that um there
was no reperfusion in the heart and the
stage four metastasis that they saw in
the lung and the metastasis that they
were seeing in the lymph nodes had been
reduced by
50% and that's in four and a half or
five weeks of um of glucose inhibition
and Dawn Administration with hbot that's
pretty quick oh it well what's
interesting about that and it goes back
to that why um you stack all of these
things around hbot it does happen very
quickly we're talking about um imping
energy viability in a cell if you were
to hold my head underwater how many
minutes would it take for me to die
literally three or four maybe depending
on how long I can hold my breath but
very quickly because you've taken my
cell's ability to use oxygen as energy
away this is how quickly your cancer
will die when you're taking those
fermentable fuel sources away in minutes
and so 2 and a half hours in a
hyperbaric oxygen chamber where you've
turned off glut analysis and you've
turned off access to glucose and you're
further stressing this with mebendazol
or um any of the other substrates you
may be using is killing those cancers
and in the same way when you pull my
head out of the water I'm not rescued
Suddenly by exposure to oxygen so very
quickly you can devastate cancer even in
just the few hours that you're in
hyperbaric oxygen and so it was
surprising then absolutely I think we
probably broke into tears in the car
after the oncology we were on our way to
hyperbaric oxygen when the oncologist
called us um but now we understand it
can happen very quickly you have to do
it at an extraordinarily Olympic level
you have to be extremely consistent you
have to change everything but when you
do it works like a hot
down uh Daniel and
uh Team when you Shar heard the news how
was your own you know Feeling by by by
no means is this the first case study
that you guys have had a chance yeah the
feeling is always there's more work to
do MH it just in other words It's always
important to acknowledge what I like to
call progress of a kind um but it's not
over and it's still not over he's got
work to do we've got work to do right in
other words the the task is not and Dr
Howard put a fine point on this earlier
the task is not to make tumors disappear
right the standard of care is very
effective that you can cut one out you
can burn one out uh you can poison one
out right that really doesn't contribute
very much to overall
survivorship one must consistently and
chronically impune tumor viability in a
sustainable fashion that makes the rest
of the body healthy that is the task so
when we see Improvement in people yes
acknowledge and immediately back to work
you you can never relent
your vigilance in this regard you you
have to keep your foot on the throttle
at all times and that doesn't mean that
you don't make adjustments right you do
make adjustments in fact that's one of
the things that sometimes is easy to
miss uh which is daily weekly
adjustments are part of your response
and reaction to facts on the ground like
I don't feel well today okay we have to
deal with that or I have a stressor that
I can't do anything about right now like
a cold or a flu okay we have to deal
with that or I have some other issue uh
sometimes you know people they have
challenges with metastatic progression
to the Bone and they have ambulatory
issues okay that needs to be dealt with
in in Dennis's case um he had a plural
affusion which is an infection of the
lung that had to be dealt with right um
so one you know this is also I think
important is that you know a human
cannot be reduced to a glucose number
and a ketone number right they're a
whole human you have to deal with them
as such um and that is a process of
constant attention to detail every day
it's it's a 24-hour day Endeavor so Dan
you shared that that was the results of
the first first scan as a followup right
right and you did Total four of those
yeah before we got to a place where um
yeah that that's actually pretty
interesting um at the end of the fourth
uh we did another scan and what we saw
was um that there was a tiny amount of
um visible tumor just above the
reference range in the right lung left
um they weren't really able to see
anything anywhere else but still that's
something that's there and at this point
U months down the road working with
Daniel I'd become uh fairly confident in
the Press pulse protocol I was watching
at work um protocol after protocol I was
feeling better I had as uh Dr Howard had
pointed out I'd eliminated um
pre-diabetes I'd lost 70 pounds I was
Aging in Reverse I was getting
incredibly healthy I felt great and I
knew this worked I just knew it and so
at that point you know I'd done some
research and um it was very likely that
what was visible uh just above the
reference range was scar tissue um but I
was also prepared for the idea that it
wasn't and that I may have to do another
press pulse protocol but I made the
decision at that point to sort of take
my foot off of the gas from a um
extreme uh I I started eating ketogenic
but more normally I didn't go to
hyperbaric oxygen I stopped with the
mebendazol I didn't do the dawn I I just
took my foot off the gas because what I
wanted to know is if I have to do this
for the rest of my life which it wasn't
clear whether or not I would I wanted to
know how was my cancer going to behave
how quickly would it come back and I
knew I had a pet C scan scheduled for uh
90 days from the date of this scan so I
just stopped doing what I was doing
knowing that I was accepting perhaps
this was going to return and we'd have
to go again but I really I needed to
know for myself how Qui quickly would my
cancer respond how quickly would it come
back where would it go how would it grow
and so I stopped and grip my teeth and
went through this process so that I'd
have more data to set the rest of my
life up with I'd know how I needed to
behave I went into that final PET CT
scan 90 days later which was July of
2023 and um I went in and whatever was
in my lung had been effectively uh
consumed biophy in my body and they
could find no cancer in the lymph nodes
none in the bone no reperfusion in the
heart I was effectively Ned all the
cancer was gone they couldn't find it
which has now further been um uh shown
to be true again in another follow-up CT
scan just a few months ago so um yeah
it's a it's an interesting process to go
through and it it'll take as long as it
takes anybody um to go through depending
on their level of intensity and
commitment and their disease burden
really today when you describe and
people say oh what state is your cancer
in what's the word that use do you say
I'm in remission no I I say that I'm Ned
no evidence of disease um really all
that means is that um the standard U
monitoring Technologies can't see it but
Dr Howard um uh you know has shared with
me and it's something that you know
we're taking very seriously and we're
pursuing that there are ways now to
monitor cancer that are that is under
the reference range of PET CT scanners
or CT scanners and these are the liquid
biopsies and I think it's really
important to explore that so we would
call that stage zero cancer right is
what we would call is circulating cells
of the cancer inside the body but you
don't have yet maybe a tumor that could
be noticed on tumor markers tumor
markers that's that's noticed yet and I
think that that's a good opportunity to
be able to talk about that for a second
uh first of course acknowledging your
story you know Dan when I had heard
about all this and further had
conversations with Daniel and getting a
chance to you know look at this case
study and walk through it which we'll
link to inside of the show notes uh just
feeling you know so much you know joy
for you for your family for your kids
you know I don't have kids but just
imagining myself in that situation and
also excitement for the larger Community
that's there that hey this is another
brick that's being laid of an example of
somebody successfully following the sea
fre protocol right and being honest
about how hard and difficult it is not
sugarcoating it not telling people that
this is some sort of you know Silver
Bullet that's out there but that it
takes meticulous work and it takes a
supportive team and that at least that
will help a few people who are on the
fence of trying to understand should
they do this should they not do this
should they work with people are there
other options on the table that at least
they feel like there's more information
for them to make an informed decision
sure you know one of the things that I
think is really important is we hear a
lot about
alternative um approaches to cancer
management or uh cancer treatment that
have these miraculous outcomes but one
of the things that seems to be um shared
in most of these stories it's no real
idea about why we had this miraculous
remission or this this uh this positive
outcome in this case what happened in my
body was exactly what was described in
Sea freed science there's no
misunderstanding there's no question
about why I got this result and that I
think is probably more exciting than the
result itself that you can look to the
scientific literature you can see what
the experiments in animals show you can
see a hundred years of science that very
clearly points to what will happen in
your body if you do this this and this
that's more exciting than the fact that
it that it worked I mean it's exciting
that it worked but that we know exactly
why and that it it can be relied upon to
happen in just about anybody I think
that's remarkable so you know the bigger
context of all this and that is very
remarkable is that you know we all have
some degree of floating cancer cells
right in the body or most most of us but
our body is able to tame those if we're
not diagnosed with cancer and I shared
the statistics earlier I think for men
you know it's closer to 50% for women
it's like 30 high 30s that between the
time that you're born and in your life
you'll be diagnosed with you know cancer
and that seems to be rising every year
um there was in fact a some big articles
that came out last week about the rise
of colon cancer especially amongst young
individuals that are there so not only
is this interesting and sea fre protocol
and the work that you guys do at the
foundation it's not only interesting as
intervention for people who have
diagnosed cancer and are looking for
Solutions whether they do the seaf frood
protocol on its own or whether they
choose to do it with the team that's
doing standard of care but also that
there are some preventative elements
that are there and that goes into the
story of liquid biopsies um I'd love for
the two of you to be able to chime in
maybe uh uh Dr Gregory Howard first you
know talk about these uh biopsies and
pick up the conversation a little bit
further if somebody uh so there's a few
that are out there I had heard about Ana
blot many many years ago before it was
unavailable from a cancer researcher
named Dr Ralph Moss who was previously
at SLO ketering and in kind of a little
bit of a scandal that he's written about
online of him not being able to write
and research about alternative
treatments and therapies he ended up
leaving and he started his own
organization called the moss moss
reports that primarily was featuring
clinics around the world um that had
alternative uh approaches to cancer and
everything that was known to work for
cancer and everything that was known to
not work for cancer in the alternative
uh space and I got referred to him
because of my mother's breast cancer and
he helped us put together a team that
had a functional medicine doctor and uh
I we were not aware of the seaf free
protocols but we implemented what I
would call you know metabolic therapies
light luckily for her it was early stage
it was caught early and uh she did um a
shorten stance of uh radiation
treatment and um in addition to a few
other things that were put together in
protocol with this Dr Moss and her
doctor Dr Liz bam who's a um um
functional medicine doctor at the ultra
Wellness Center in Massachusetts started
by Dr Mark Heyman and also a cancer
survivor herself um so I had heard that
uh after my mom's cancer and the word
that her oncologist used at the time was
that okay hey you're in remission
there's no evidence of the cancer that's
there after her following her protocol
for about a year to a year and a half um
we were told that hey you could use one
of these liquid biopsies to keep um tabs
and see if the cancer ends up coming
back because as you had mentioned that's
a major challenge for individuals and
then all of a sudden we looked up one
day and then the anklebot test wasn't
available when it was time for her to do
that uh Daniel you gave me the whole
background of that we won't go into that
at this point of time but if people
today you know who are not diagnosed
with cancer want to pursue one of these
liquid
biopsies that are there you know what
should they know and what are the best
options that are available for them so
the The Grail test is one um and that
picks up 50 different I think it's 50
different types of cancer very early and
then the piece that Grail is missing is
what do you do then so and then there's
another one there's another test that's
paid for by Insurance uh not as a
screening test the Grail test is also
not paid for by insurance I think it's
around
$1,500 you go in you get that test
there's um we use rgcc international for
circulating cancer stem cells so once a
year I go and I get tested for
circulating cancer stem cells to your
point um I we probably all have circula
cancer stem cells for a minute right but
overall they won't show up in a blood
test and so so um if you have circuline
cancer stem cells you've got a problem
that needs to be addressed so I once a
year I get circuline cancer stem cells
by rgcc International um there's and a
physician has to I mean physician has to
order that the Grail test I don't think
you I don't know how you do Grill test
often a physician will have to order it
okay yeah often a physician will have to
order it there are some directed
consumer companies that are out there
that are trying to make it available and
then they have licensed physicians in
each state
no affiliation but there's a company
called function Health that I know that
puts it as part of their package but
still a physician has to sign off on
order right I think the biggest thing
though is you have to be prepared for
the result right you know because I did
it and for me then it came back positive
and so you're like okay wow now what and
so um you you have to have the same the
mindset you know like Den did okay all
right now I'm going to I got to do
something about this and um whether it's
you know making different lifestyle
choices reduce your stress you know
meditate more um spend time with doing
the things that you enjoy what else do I
have to do to try to get my body healthy
and so for us we think that trying to
improve your mitochondrial function
number mitochondria is really important
how do we change that micro environment
and you can do it with different ways
exercise is one um the
phosphoglycolipids we think that's
really important and so I think you just
have to be prepared for what if I do get
a positive result and am I mentally you
equipped to deal with that and am do I
have somebody that I can go to that's
going to help me then um figure out how
to improve my micro environment you know
my mental health and so what like you
were saying you know with your mom you
you have that point person that can help
you and and early on um Michelle was
just like everyone else you you uh first
you go into denial Right comes cuz we
kind of knew that she had well we knew
she had uh malignant melanoma because
she'd had that surgically removed 20
years before but then we do the Ana blot
and it says that she has ovarian cancer
so we're like we want to run to MD
Anderson and and we could easily find
someone to say oh no no don't worry
about that and so that's the the
challenge everyone goes through anger
denial you know all these things because
it's traumatic I mean it's the big
c-word cancer now what do you do with it
and these companies um they just do the
testing but then they're like good luck
good luck and so you know then you need
people like us um that know what to do
and and we we start we didn't know what
to do you know we were playing around
with this that and the other thing and
um and there's many many ways and it's
much easier to keep uh cancer under
control and prevent a recurrence I mean
there's a lot a lot a lot of ways and um
uh for instance someone about six years
ago uh major league baseball player been
in the major leagues for 30 years he had
all the resources in the world he had
the prostate removed two years and they
says 100% it's not coming back we
robotically removed it you're good to go
well two years later is PSA shooting up
like a rocket and so they wanted to do
chemo radiation but they couldn't see it
they just knew that his PSA shooting up
so the answer standard of care was full
body radiation keep
well he's smart enough no that's not
going to turn out well for me and so he
contacted me and says hey I give you uh
six weeks if you can turn it around um
you know I'm with you if not I'm gonna
go this other way anyway in six weeks we
turned it around and it was 0 point
something using the seaf free protocol
or something else no no no no so we've
played with so many things and there's a
lot of things that you can do um and all
of these things that are um people talk
about Resveratrol kumin um all these
natural substances there there's
hundreds of them and they do inhibit
cancer for a minute but what we found
out is cancer is so tricky we can
measure uh phenotypes and genotypes and
as soon as you introduce something that
metabolically will block uh a tumor
pathway just like chemo but not as not
as potent with and and uh without side
effect the cancer within a few months
will go around it
and we didn't know that at the time
finds a new pathway it finds a new
pathway and so metabolically it'll just
change a little bit and then you'll get
um these mutations that don't rely on
that pathway anymore it's just like you
know some cancers are dependent on
hormones you know estrogen progesterone
whatever you block them and again or or
even prostate cancer blocking
testosterone now we know that's a losing
battle again it works for a minute but
it'll go around it and then come back
more aggressive so we started
um doing that you know you know just we
could it's easy to find things that will
inhibit it but then we we uh
affectionally call that whack-a-mole so
as soon as we hit it over here it pop up
over here and long term that isn't it so
what you really have to do and
everyone's looking to they want to do
exactly what they're doing with their
bad lifestyle but get a new
outcome it ain't working so you really
have to go back and um change all the
things that you can change and make
yourself as healthy as possible so like
right now Michelle um in the last year
we've run circulating cancer stem cells
three or four times and and it's not
inexpensive you know it's about a
thousand dollars a throw so you you know
um people we do it for experimental
reasons but um so we experimenting with
with Michelle and um just a simple thing
of uh grounding so that uh people can
read about grounding or earthing um that
does things to the way your blood flow
row formation in your blood um lowers
cortisol better sleep lowers glucose
it's so easy that that works I mean you
can see a noticeable change in
circulating cancer stem cells and we
don't have her playing video games you
know
mean so there's there's these easy
lifestyle changes that you can make
um uh we could go on and on and that's
part of we're investigating all these
different things and we're trying to
find the easiest thing so people don't
have a recurrence the other thing we use
a hair analysis and we can pick out
supplements that will balance our
autonomic nervous system so that's a big
word autonomic nervous system what is
that uh people have these fitbits and
different things and it's called heart
rate variability again uh all these
really neat gadgets and you get a heart
rate variability you know how many hours
you sleep but then you don't know how to
fix it and so we found uh companies that
you can do a hair analysis take the
supplements it will balance your
autonomic nervous system and so um
that's the balance you know between
stress and back par sympathetic system
so we're just balancing that out and uh
Michelle circulating cancer stem cell
has been as low as ever and we're doing
almost nothing um we're using uh we're
investigating microcurrent um pulse
electromagnetic field
frequencies nothing's off the table for
us you know we're investigating at all
we just want to make it as easy as
possible to keep themselves cancer free
because they got to do this to the rest
of their life these circulating cancer
stem cells we didn't know this until
Quest Nutrition we noticed that in the
dogs that the circulating cancer stem
cells were coming back we were like does
that happen in humans and so this is
only eight years ago we didn't know the
answer to that so Quest paid quite a bit
of money and we were running circulating
cancer stem cells and all these people
thought they're cancer free 100% of
people they had circulating cancer stem
cells are like oh we didn't know that so
I mean that was a big aha moment for us
and so then there's these 18 million
people running around thinking I'm
cancer free no not really you're only as
good as your immune system and so um
yeah we could help and and that goes
back to we need a branch of oncology for
those people uh because the doctors
don't know you know how to keep it under
control but so they and they can easily
learn it right and and part of it is
also if I'm hearing you correctly is
that there's a lot of different tools
that are out there lot of them but they
need further investigation to know
exactly which ones consistently work for
where they well they and I think it's um
if you like to exercise do that and um
so it's going to be different for each
person and um uh so there's a lot of
tools and you just whatever you're
willing to do and matches your lifestyle
you can do it and make it work as long
as you're watching the circulating
cancer stem cells or some equivalent
test and seeing that you're whatever
you're doing is driving it down if you
see it's going up like a rocket you're
doing something wrong you got to change
and so it's just the monitoring people
just have to know to monitor but but
they're not monitoring yeah just like
what Daniel's saying is you know you
just need to try to get as healthy as
you can and so then you know you think
oh you know I have diabetes but I'm
taking a pill and it's fixing it well
have you really have you really fixed it
and so um if you go back where you you
know if you think that the mitochondrial
um is the
basis for your disease which a lot of
people do think that it's a
mitochondrial dysfunction that leads to
diabetes and hypertension and all those
things so why aren't we talking about
okay what can we do to fix our
mitochondria and so
um people just need help in trying to
become as healthy as possible and it's
not just oh let me throw a pill at the
disease that you have I mean obviously
you're going to need those things to to
try to get your disease State under
control I mean you know you're obviously
going to need blood pressure pills and
you know pills for your your diabetes
but maybe there's more to it than that
that you can you can be adding you know
to help yeah and I want to chime in so
hrf we've not only addressed cancer
we've addressed heart disease and
Alzheimer's and uh type two diabetes and
so we had uh um a person it was a friend
of ours and um uh way back quite a few
years ago I tested him and he had uh
well he had heart disease and he had a
high lipoprotein little a lonus Pauling
found that out many years ago and um uh
It's associated with heart disease um
very closely associated with heart
disease and this guy was off the chart
high so anyway U but his cardiologist
didn't want to do anything with it and
um except keep putting stin in and yeah
so he he just kept putting more and more
Sten in and so I kind of lost touch with
them for for a few years and I saw on
Facebook he had a heart attack so I
contacted him and uh he was still in the
hospital and I said um tell him about
hrf and I say we're going to reverse
your heart disease we're going to
reverse your high blood pressure we're
going to reverse your diabetes and I
guess I didn't know at the time he tell
his wife Dr Howard is crazy and so um we
knew that he had this High lipoprotein L
A so we advocated for him we got him
into a trial uh for ratha which lowers
uh lipoprotein little a and so the
medical establishment wasn't really
interested in lipoprotein delay until we
had drugs pharmaceutical drugs that
would lower it when we had that then it
was bam we got to test everyone and so
it was the same science so that gets
into evidence-based medicine versus
standard of Care standard of care is
just whatever is paid for by insurance
doesn't people think that that's
evidence and anything else is not
evidence-based well the lipoprotein L A
they knew about it all this time and it
wasn't Katha and the similar drugs
anyway so we get enrolled uh this uh
David Daniels hello David uh we talked
to him yesterday by the way because we'd
lost uh contact with him for a minute
and so we get him enrolled in a study
and uh so we we're hoping he's getting
ratha but Daniel's just coaching him on
the diet and so um the pictures are just
crazy he was a big guy we slimmed him
down and his doctor told him uh type 2
diabetes is genetic you can never get
rid of that and so we're like no no no
he says well my doctor's right here and
telling me that I says well let's just
see in a few months so now no longer
diabetic um we took about 60 pounds off
the guy um uh quit getting stance every
few months and um so we're like wow was
the ratha or did we do that with all of
our you know U making them healthier and
we found out just yesterday we found out
he was on the placebo he never got Rath
though so it was what we did and so um
um but yeah you know no doctors ever
contacted us hey what are you doing with
this guy you know but we just do our
thing and uh just made him healthy and
his heart disease become under control
and now we're going to introduce another
thing to him that's even more Cutting
Edge again paid for by insurance but not
um doesn't make much money no one really
cares much about it and uh it's this uh
external um counter pulsation you put
these things on the person's legs
revascularized your heart in seven weeks
and uh so if anyone has heart disease
look at e CP it's the science is great
but no one's really going to talk to you
about it because there's no money in it
I mean it's paid for but insurance will
pay for it but someone's got to tell you
about it right somebody's got to tell
you about it there has to be knowledge
there has to be awareness there has to
be incentive and I remember in our last
conversation Daniel and uh Dr Gregory
you wrote this as well too inside of
your your your note in sort of
preparation of the podcast
you both had mentioned
that if there's going to be a better way
which we know there can be a better way
but if there's going to be a better way
that
scales it's going to have to be a way
that's actually more profitable for
people that are out there otherwise
there's no incentive to get more people
participating and creating different
solutions that are there do you want to
expand on that a little bit Yeah in fact
this is sort of riffing on on something
that Dr
cfre says because he gets asked this
very question well you know if this is
all so great why hasn't it scaled right
and his his retort to that as well
there's going to be an entrepreneur that
figures this out in other words that
figures out how to make an economic
model that Services a population that's
interested in pursuing metabolic
therapies and at the same time is
profitable for shareholders investors
and and principal architects of of Any
Given Enterprise um that's definitely
something that you know we put a lot of
Mind share in and it's an exploration
that uh is ongoing because you know to
go back to something that we touched on
more towards the beginning having a
place for people to land where the
entire landscape of metabolic therapies
is all Under One Roof all of your
Diagnostics uh all of your you know you
just walk out of a clinic with here's
everything you need to eat for the next
week in a bag do that right here are all
your novel substrates and and exactly
how to time it and you can come back and
ask any questions anytime you want uh
because there's an entire staff here
just like a normal hospital or clinic uh
that is here to provide that service I
think that that will be something that's
forthcoming um for two reasons I think
the primary reason is the one that that
Dr Howard mentioned earlier which is
because metabolic therapies are a
effective and B orders of magnitude
cheaper than the standard of care
whether you're talking about cardiac
disease neurocognitive decline obesity
diabetes cancer um that
inventive uh and Intrepid entrepreneurs
are going to look at that and go okay
there's an opportunity there in other
words there's a Target there that really
no one else is shooting
at um and so I see that you know as
something that probably will manifest in
the next 5 to 10 years at some scale
right right now there's pockets of it
here and there but it's not particularly
well develop you know uh maybe the uh
the the minds at pruvo who who've
already done this for Imaging uh will
look at this and go aha there's
something here we're good at franchises
let's make a
franchise well it's an exciting time
because you know as you mentioning
earlier Dr Howard that it's not like
sure there's context that the metabolic
therapy as is related to cancer the seaf
fre protocol that Dan you followed
that's specifically for cancer right but
there are themes inside of there that
are going to be supported for somebody's
heart health or metabolic Health an area
that uh you know I'm also very excited
about is that I've had on the podcast Dr
Chris Palmer and he is one of the
leading researchers and advocates for
metabolic therapy for psychiatric
intervention and he's at McLean Hospital
the number one Psychiatric Hospital in
the country and he wrote uh a book
called brain energy very similar to the
Sea freed protocol it's presented as a
theory right he C freed would have more
evidence in the mice but Dr Chris Palmer
says this is presented as a theory even
though I have you know tons of case
studies of individuals who have gone on
largely a modified ketogenic diet and
other um mitochondrial repair
processes and interesting enough I was
on Twitter one day and I ran into a
young woman who had shared that she had
gone on Dr Chris's Dr Chris Palmer's
protocol
and had um put into these are her words
uh put into remission her um bipolar one
disorder that she had been diagnosed
with and she had had reoccurrences on
and off of and tried medication and it
wasn't it worked initially but then it
was severely impacting her life and she
started to put her story out there and
one of the groups that reached out to
her again just going back to this idea
of like you never know who's listening
was um the family that started the
software company that's a it's a game
not a stressful game that a lot of young
people play called
Roblox and that family had gotten into
that uh had used a lot of their wealth
because their own son had been diagnosed
with I believe it was schizophrenia and
they had heard of Dr Palmer's work and
they had seen that oh metabolic
therapies could be helpful for putting
into um uh you know remission or
severely improving their sons
psychiatric condition and it did and
they got really excited and they created
this group and this foundation called
the metabolic mind so you never know
who's listening you never know how
information gets out there and you never
know what's possible when a group of
people come together and say we're in
this perfect storm where so many people
are getting un are unhealthy it's
getting worse and if it continues at
this stage we will eventually run out of
money to be able to treat everybody
using the standard of care and then what
are we going to do so there has to be a
different approach there has to be a
different way to go about things so uh
Michelle and I years ago almost 15 20
years ago um a psychiatrist asked us to
get involved with electroconvulsive
therapy and you know we weren't that
interested and it requires anesthesia
and we're anesthesiologist he said come
on do I don't know I didn't really want
to get involved seemed pretty
controversial at the time and then I
asked him a simple question I said so
these people don't make a
neurotransmitter and he said yeah so you
give them a pill so it makes them make a
neurotransmitter yeah I said why don't
they make a neur why don't they make
their own he goes I don't know I said
all right now I'm in I says I'm your guy
I'm going to do anesthesia and I says
before we're done I'm going to figure
out why treatment resistant depression
so 30% of the people that are on an
anpress doesn't work um I'm going to
figure that out so we we took 200
patients $5,000 worth of Labs on 200
patients just to see what would happen
all kinds of inflammatory markers this
that and the other thing genetic markers
everything that people postulated vam D
vitamin D uh but $5,000 worth of Labs on
200 people and what hit was inflammation
off the chart 98% was inflammation so
I'm like wow what is inflammation due to
the blood cerebral blood flow and So
within hours I kind of knew the answer
so the answer was this High inflammation
clumped up the blood and you can see
that on a peripheral smear put blood
under microscope and it'll Clump real
quick um so I'm like wow this is kind of
an interesting question what is a
cerebral blood flow on someone with
depression bipolar uh or all types of
mental illness and their cerebral blood
flow is decreased 30% 30% decreased
blood flow but certain areas of the
brain so I'm like wow so I was a
pharmacist before I went to medical
school I'm like I think a magnesium
infusion is going to work and so then I
looked magnesium was already in the
their literature in fact the early uh
studies on magnesium was are better than
any anti-depressant out there so I'm
like well let's just combine
electroconvulsive therapy with a
magnesium infusion it worked so now
we've done roughly 70,000 treatments and
it's being done at springstone hospitals
it's a franchise of psychiatric
hospitals but we started at at one and
then it moved to others and and so um
again it's just all about reimbursement
so the best thing would be for mental
illness would be cheaply a magnesium
infusion but there's zero reimbursement
for magnesium infusion but going back to
what you were saying about diet though
and that would relate to the
inflammation and so sure ketogenic diet
is going to reduce inflammation your
blood will be less sticky it's going to
peruse the areas that need to be
producing these
neurotransmitters and so and of those
200 patients what's yeah we we work
backwards like an internal medicine
doctor should and said why do they have
this inflammation so we found everything
from autoimmune disease that would be
rheumatoid arthritis shrin um and so
simple blood tests uh a lot of people
bad teeth bad teeth colon problems few
Cancers and so we work backwards and we
could figure it out but um there's no um
there's no real reimbursement for this
invest ative field of medicine and so um
but it could be done again um so but the
real money and the hospitals and
everyone involved they wanted to do the
procedure which was the
electroconvulsive therapy but when we
combined it with magnesium infusion
that's when it really worked great yeah
I think the reimbursement and a changing
way that healthc care is practiced in
this you know country especially is
going to be a big part of uh you know
setting up different possibilities and
most likely as you mentioned Daniel it's
going to happen through uh you know a
combination of uh you know traditional
healthare and some entrepreneurial
Spirit of people coming up with other
solutions that are there yeah um as
we're winding down here on time in our
podcast together I wanted to use our
uh last bit of time that we have here to
talk about sort
of thoughts of what this journey not
just Den story but bringing it back to
cancer you know which is why probably a
lot of people here are listening um so
in addition to den Story the multitude
of people that you've gotten a chance to
work
with
if somebody's listening today who like
many individuals who came across my
first C freed
interview they are concerned about one
day getting cancer what are your
recommendations for that individual
who's listening and then we're going to
talk to leaving some recommendations and
action items for somebody who has a
diagnosis or has a family member that
has a diagnosis so maybe Daniel if you
want to kick us off for somebody who's
wanting to be proactive a few things
that are there that you want to leave
them with action items wise um when it
comes
to limiting their likelihood of
developing this in the first Pace or at
least getting a chance to catch it early
yeah I mean I'll go back to the the
prior statement on this where where we
touched a little bit on this is to
really start with C Freed's book and the
reason the reason I would offer that as
a pointed departure is because firstly
it's it's written in a very loyaly style
right so evidence is presented evidence
is supported evidence is recapitulated
right so one of the things that's so
important about that is that this is a
form of scientific literacy that not
everyone is exposed to like we're not
all necessarily exposed to that say in
eth grade right so beginning to develop
the skill to think rationally is very
important because that puts you in a
very different position when it comes to
evaluating any
consideration so that is implicit in
ced's book additionally um I think
what's important about it is there's a
lot of answers to why questions well why
does this work the way it worked what is
the mechanism of action how can I have
confidence that this is a real finding
where is the supporting evidence all of
those things are gone through in
literally eye watering detail um and so
just by virtue of putting oneself
through that experience it focuses the
mind it sharpens the mind and it also
offers people a level of insight into
medicine and scientific practice that is
par excellance so it changes how you
think about and evaluate any other piece
of information you come across
that's great yeah I love that Dan I want
to get a chance to ask uh you the same
question you know for somebody that is
from just everything that you've seen
sure and also having a few uh
pre-existing conditions even prior your
cancer is there a message that you want
to leave some of the Audi audience
members who are trying to avoid being in
this situation in the first place just
from everything that you've come across
your own reading and your familiarity
with uh sea Freed's work so this is for
people whoy avoid cancer in the future
yeah I think um one of the doctors
Howard mentioned this earlier we now
know that the science is is fairly
definitive it's clear U cancer is um
it's a problem of mitochondrial function
and so if you uh poison your
mitochondria in any of a number of ways
that you can by overc consuming fructose
or overc consuming alcohol or allowing
yourself to get overweight or eating a
High
carbohydrate uh diet um not protecting
your mitochondria you're putting
yourself at risk um you can look at the
other side of that coin which is what
I'm going to recommend which is protect
your mitochondria do things to improve
the size the efficiency and the number
of mitochondria you have and there are
any number of things to do that um cold
water exposure hyperbaric oxygen
phospholipid
um any number of things you can do it's
easy to find um resistance training prob
has the most amount of literature I
think you're absolutely around its
protective yeah aspect of cancer and so
protect your mitochondria build your
mitochondria um if that was your primary
focus I think you could um feel fairly
uh fairly confident that you'd be as uh
prophylactically protected as you could
be
great uh Gregory do you want to chime in
and then Michelle yeah so
um I'll I'll put a plug in for a company
we got no financial interest in
nutritional Therapeutics that's um their
products are based on the research of G
Nicholson um to fix mitochondria and he
coined the term I mentioned before
membrane lipid replacement therapy I
think everyone uh in his studies there's
20 some studies on he definitively
showed that if you improve mitochondria
function it'll help with pain pain
chronic fatigue um mental Clarity just
everything just human performance so we
all and that's just one product there's
similar products out there I'm just more
familiar with like a supplement it's a
supplement pills pills or powdery take
it and and um so the studies were all
you take it for a couple of months fix
your mitochondria and um then probably
just the wear and tear of living you
probably ought to do that a couple of
times a year and to fix your
mitochondria and and that's membrane
lipid replacement therapy with some sort
of phospholipid phospholipids are uh
phosph choline phoso tile searing uh you
can get a hold of those very
inexpensively but will they actually get
to where they're supposed to go I worked
on that several years I had that
question so I think man maybe that's a
fountain of youth if we could fix a
mitochondria and I really spent a lot of
time and money and then I Stumble out
this guy G Nicholson had already done it
I'm like unbelievable I wasted all this
time and he has clinical evidence he's
done research trials he's got 22 studies
on it and they're published I'm like oh
geez I just wasted like years and so I
call him up congratulate him and he said
well and he's an older guy now and uh
anyway so uh you know that's something
that I think everyone should investigate
some phospholipid that um fix your
mitochondria and then um if you don't
want to get cancer you probably ought to
be every year or two get a Grail test or
a similar test and there's always a new
test coming coming up that's just the
one that's on my thought right now but
um and cancer way back to the we
mentioned the Ana blot test James Mo he
showed that typically it takes four to
10 years um for a liquid biopsy you can
pick it up four to 10 years before you'd
get a lump or a bump that would pick up
on the most sensitive test so find one
of these tests like the Grail test or
another one get it every year if you can
afford it every couple years and you're
way ahead of the curve and if you find
it then you you you're going to reach
out to an hrf a functional medicine
doctor and they can help you keep that
uh under control and then you'll never
get clinical
disease great Michelle do you want to
chime in anything else you add um you
know just that I think there are things
that are out there and you just have to
be prepared you might have to look and
and just to educate yourself on
grounding or um the
phosphoglycolipids and don't be afraid
of what the results are from the tests
if you choose to get the test tests
because there is something you can do
about it you can be proactive and just
like Den did is you know you can take
charge of your own health and um you uh
you don't have to be afraid that's great
I'll just throw in a plug because I know
everybody would probably agree and if
you don't cut me off and jump in with
your own thoughts uh you know a lot of
the new Innovative things get a lot of
attention for good reasons right and a
lot of the fun things and I'm a fan of
grounding you know I like to combine I
like habit stacking I'll do my grounding
with a little bit of morning sunlight or
evening sunlight kind of get it all
together and we should never Overlook
the basics of you know regular good
sleep resistance training which most
people are not doing any aspects of
fundamental aspects of core metabolic
Health making sure that we try to keep
our you know A1C glucose fasting insulin
in a good range and of course a
supportive Community whether that's a
you know a church that you're part of or
a friend group or tribe and how
protective those aspects and you know
relationships can have and then last one
I'd add in is we've done a few episodes
on the importance of just minimizing our
just total toxic burden and from all the
products the chemicals that are in the
environment those are all very
straightforward things that we can get a
chance to do and uh um are are
foundational that you know we can
combine all those things together so
just wanted to give a little shout out
to that um lastly as we uh end off over
here just uh you know any kind of final
words and especially keeping in mind the
individual knowing the type of in
audience that finds these episodes
especially on YouTube is oftenly and
unfortunately somebody who themsel has
recently been diagnosed or their own
family member and feels like they're
just trying to stop their head from
spinning get oriented get grounded a
little bit find a sense of hope
Direction um what do you want to share
for that individual who's listening I'll
go in reverse order here Dr Michelle
Howard if you want to chim in first I
think just what Daniel said is you
you've got to start with sa Freed's book
you know cancer is a metabolic disease
because you've got to educate yourself
and then
um you can I think maybe just understand
cancer a little bit better because you
know cancer just it's just a scary word
and so um I think people get a little
bit Paralyzed by that but I think
knowledge is power and so if you can get
knowledge then you can start asking the
questions and when people say oh you
need to do this treatment or that
treatment you could say okay tell me
more about that what are the studies
that you have that support that how is
that going to really change my outcome
you know at one year two year five year
you know that because that's the
survival rates people always talk about
but when you have when you have
knowledge I think that you can ask
better
questions Gregory well and that if
people can call hrf and and we'll do our
best to to to get to them and a lot of
times we ask what part of the country
what kind what part of the world you in
and we'll know people um you know uh in
different parts of the world that we can
get them in contact with that know our
protocol and so yeah give us give us a
shout um our website well you're
probably GNA give our website um you can
mention it too MH rf. G um and it's uh
hypocrit Research Foundation there's a
couple of nonprofit hypocrates Research
Foundation and uh but that's our that's
our web address and uh but give us a
give us a a shout and um we'll help you
the best we can great Daniel well I'm
tempted to because Michelle picked up on
the education Thing theme which I think
is fundamental but something that you
you know hope is a uh it's a dicey term
please talk about it talk about it why
because false hope is a
cruelty right wishful thinking uh
elusory thinking will move One backwards
and so hope that is derives from a deep
understanding of facts is
appropriate but hope that stems from
wishful thinking will definitively move
One backwards so gaining the perspective
the skill and the insight to delineate
between those two things is a uh a a
determinative uh element of uh being
able to anticipate success and so taking
the time to really think about that as
deeply as one can I think will be very
serviceable to a lot of people who are
exactly in the position that you've just
mentioned I've just got this horrible
news how do I navigate and parse this
immense amount of information that's
coming at me you know it feels like
you're drinking from a a fire hose right
how do I get to a place where I can very
methodically eat the elephant one bite
bite at a time as as they say um and get
to a place where uh one has a very high
degree of confidence that's based on a
deep body of research and and
self-education so that that ties ties
back in with Michelle yeah no thank you
for adding that in I hope that today on
uh you know with us going as deep as
we've gone almost three hours
yeah yeah the the My Hope and goal for
the conversation was as much as possible
within that time period be as real about
the
difficulties you you said it more
succinctly than I did just be real be
real keep it real can't keep it if it
ain't
[Laughter]
real Dan you want to chim in yeah sure I
think I'm just going to kind of further
jam on this a little bit U with a little
Nuance um as somebody body who got one
of these diagnosis and found myself
searching uh the toms of YouTube for
information and um insight and hope uh
and knowledge it's very difficult to
parse truth from fiction and there's
reason for that um beyond the fact that
you know science is not always easy to
understand and we're not always trained
for it we're at a inflection point a
sort of an overlapping point in history
right now where an enormous uh group of
people uh doctors and
oncologists still live in a world where
they believe that cancer is a genetic
disease um where another group of people
have um realized and proven and shown
with ex exhaustive studies and research
that it is in fact a disease of
mitochondrial dysfunction and though
that is the good news that we now know
that that we live in this overlapping
inflection point is also the bad news
because you're going to go out there
you're going to watch a podcast like
this and you're going to learn the
information we're telling you and you're
going to go and read SE Freed's book or
paper watch his videos but you're also
going to come across an enormous amount
of information that literally says the
opposite or that deters you from doing
that and so um I hope that a video like
this and a story like mine and the
stories that you've heard from the
doctors's Howard and from Daniel um can
help to point you in a direction um that
is going to deliver you to a place where
you can access truth and not be duped
um this type of uh media is incredibly
important specifically for that end
understand I live in a world where we
understand what cancer is and we've been
able to apply that science to therapies
that can resolve it and all you need to
do is to read that science to join us
and in the future everyone will be using
metabolic therapies cancer will not be
the horrible death sentence and the
terrible tragedy that it has been for
the last however many hundreds of years
um and uh we're just happy to be a part
of making that happen but you need to
understand that it's going to be
confusing out there as you read and look
and hear what people are telling you to
do but please if my story can be
anything let it be proof that Thomas
caed is right that metabolic therapies
work and that um yeah the outcomes that
you're staring down the barrel up don't
have to be the Way It
Is Well I want to thank everybody here
for joining on the podcast today and it
was truly an honor to try to do my best
job to at least host and bring out
incredible information Dan of course
first with your incredible story that
you shared with me and reaching out to
us I really appreciate that and then
getting a chance to connect me with
Daniel and Daniel you sharing about the
background all the incredible work that
you guys had done first with dogs and
then the case studies of human beings
and the role that you want to play in
this uh larger community of helping
people understand and see the Bricks by
bricks and the case studies that you're
putting out there and doctors Gregory
and Michelle Howard sharing both your
individ ual story and journey with
cancer as well as what the New Frontier
will have to look like if we're going to
get to a place where these modalities
are more accessible uh it's been a
tremendous pleasure to have you all here
and getting a chance to uh host this
conversation so thank you all and uh
we'll make sure that we have all the
links for your websites and the
recommended books and different
Therapeutics that were mentioned below
and your blog if people want to check it
out yeah great self-rescue society.org
yeah we'll have all those links in the
show notes uh thank you all so much for
being part of the conversation thank you
tremendous thank you thanks hey YouTube
If you enjoyed what you just saw keep
watching for more great content on how
to improve your brain and your life the
very organ organization that sponsors
hundreds of millions of dollars in
research support is of the opinion that
cancer is something other than what it
is